{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}{\s2 heading 2;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs24 Center of the Known Universe 2005.\b0\par
\b Questions by Cal Berkeley (Ashley Chow, Martha Matsumoto, Salpi Vartivarian).\b0\par
\b Additional questions by UCLA (Ray Luo).\b0\par
\par
History (4/4).\par
\par
Calling for homestead laws and tariffs for revenue only, its sixteen congressmen maintained power in the House for two years.  Nominating Charles Francis Adams for the vice presidency, this party weakened support for the Democrats and helped win the election for Zachary Taylor in 1848.  After the Wilmot Proviso was defeated, this party was formed in Buffalo, NY by Barnburners and "conscience" Whigs.  Nominating Martin Van Buren for the presidency, for ten points, name this political party which opposed expanding slavery into the western territories.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Free-Soil\ulnone\b0  Party\par
\par
Schoolboys pelted her husband\rquote s entourage with snowballs when he married her, an example of growing xenophobia during her reign.  She led an unhappy childhood, being banished from court at a young age to Ludlow.  After ascension to the throne, she falsely believed that she was pregnant.  Her attempt to reconcile England to the Catholic church failed, perhaps largely due to the fact that it was known that her successor would be Protestant.  The daughter of Catherine of Aragon, for ten points, name this bloody Tudor monarch.\par
\pard\keepn\s2\tab Answer: \ul\b Mary I\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Mary Tudor\par
\pard\ulnone\b0\par
He sponsored Carlo Pisacane in Calabria and Felice Orsini in Carrara.  Editor of \i Roma del popolo\i0  from Lugano, he was forced into exile to Marseille in 1831.  He met Carlyle and Ashurst in England, where his correspondence with Bandiera were forwarded by the British government to Austria.  The revolutions of 1848 failed to achieve his dream of a democratic republic, and he slowly lost support as revolutionaries turned to Camillo di Cavour for leadership.  For ten points, name this founder of Young Italy, the father of Italy unification.\par
\tab Answer: Giuseppe \ul\b Mazzini\ulnone\b0\par
\par
In a 1965 excavation of this site, Yigael Yadin found potsherds with Hebrew names, possibly lots cast to decide who would die first.  Fortifications built by Herod the Great here were put to use by the 1000 men, women, and children led by Eleazar ben Jair against the 15,000-man Roman legion X Fretensis for 2 years, until the Romans built a ramp of earth up to this fortress and set fire to its walls.  Southeast of Jerusalem, for ten points, name this mountaintop fortress, where in 73 C. E. the Romans found that all but 7 of the Zealots had taken their own lives.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Masada\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following about strikes in 19th century America for ten points each.\par
1. This 1894 railroad strike was caused by a cut in workers and wages.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Pullman\ulnone\b0  strike\par
2. Steelworkers near Pittsburgh went on this strike in 1892 against Clay Frick's anti-union policies.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Homestead\ulnone\b0  strike\par
3. These men were brought in to break the Homestead strike, resulting in the deaths of 7 workers and three strikebreakers.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Pinkerton\ulnone\b0 s\par
\par
For ten points each, answer these questions about a small town in South Dakota.\par
1. On December 29, 1980, over 200 Lakota Indians were massacred by the troops of the 7th Cavalry at this site on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Wounded Knee\ulnone\b0\par
2. The slain were members of this movement which the army was there to put down.  Started by a Paiute Indian, Wovoka, Lakota members hoped for a return of native lands and the disappearance of whites if certain rites were performed.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Ghost Dance\ulnone\b0\par
3. On February 27, 1973, around 200 members of this group, took over the town of Wounded Knee and refused to leave until the U.S. government addressed some of its grievances.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b A\ulnone\b0 merican \ul\b I\ulnone\b0 ndian \ul\b M\ulnone\b0 ovement\par
\par
For ten points each, answer these questions about the Great Exhibition of 1851.\par
1. This centerpiece of the Great Exhibition, built in Hyde Park and using almost one million square feet of glass, contained more than 13,000 exhibits.\par
\tab Answer: The \ul\b Crystal Palace\ulnone\b0\par
2. This man with help from William Henry Barlow designed the Crystal Palace, supposedly in only 10 days.\par
\tab Answer: Joseph \ul\b Paxton\b0\par
\ulnone 3. Among the American exhibits in the Crystal Palace, was this man's reaper, which won the Gold Medal.\par
\tab Answer: Cyrus \ul\b McCormick\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following questions about Chinese history for ten points each.\par
1. This period began with the Later Liang, followed by the subsequent loss of the 16 border prefectures, and then ended with the Later Zhou.\par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b Five Dynasties\ulnone\b0  and Ten Kingdoms\par
\pard 2. What dynasty brought the Five Dynasties to an end?\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Song \ulnone\b0 Dynasty\par
3. The Song dynasty continued to have problems with foreign invasions and was forced to agree to this humiliating treaty giving many concessions to the foreigners.  \par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Yuan Shan\ulnone\b0  Truce\par
\par
Science (4/4).\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar While S, C, and E polymorphisms of this molecule lead to abnormalities, Savannah, Bangkok, Zurich, and Tokuchi variants of one of its subunits are perfectly normal.  Before birth, it is synthesized in the liver using 2 gamma subnits.  The Bohr effect is the downward shift of its sigmoidal dissociation curve at lowered pH.  Consisting of noncovalent interactions of 2 alpha chains and 2 beta chains, it contains 4 porphyrin rings and 4 iron atoms.  For ten points, name this protein that transports oxygen from the lungs to the tissues.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b hemoglobin\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar They are coordinated to solvents like THF or diethyl ether, and hydrolyzed violently in water.  Their have polarizations in reverse to that of haloalkanes, and contain nucleophilic carbanions.  As opposed to hydride reduction, they form new carbon-carbon bonds when reacting with carbonyl groups, furnishing primary alcohols from formaldehydes, secondary alcohols from other aldehydes, and tertiary alcohols from ketones.  For ten points, name these organomagnesium R-Mg-X reagents named for a Frenchman.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Grignard\ulnone\b0  reagents\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Its production can be observed when a cloud chamber containing a thin lead plate in a magnetic field is struck by cosmic radiation in a 1933 Anderson experiment.  Solving for the relativistic energy of a free electron yielded negative energy levels, which are proposed to be constituents of a vacuum by Dirac.  2 times m-sub-zero times c-squared is the minimum photon energy necessary for pair production of it and an electron.  For ten points, name this particle identical to an electron except for the opposite sign of its charge.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b positron\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
Its atmospheric methane absorbs light at the red end of the spectrum, while an unusual magnetic field governs its rotation.  The only planet with an equator lying on a perpendicular plane, it has 11 rings, the outermost of which is called the epsilon ring.  William Lassell discovered two of its moons: Umbriel and Ariel, while Gerard Kuiper found Miranda.  Discovered in England by the German astronomer William Herschel, for ten points, name this third largest planet in the solar system that lies beyond Saturn.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Uranus\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about growth in plants for ten points each.\par
1. This is plant tissue made up of actively dividing cells, and regions of indeterminate growth.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b meristem\ulnone\b0\par
2. This is a meristem in stem and root, consisting of vascular variety that forms wood and phloem, and cork variety that forms bark with suberin-coated walls.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b cambium\ulnone\b0\par
3. This is a meristem in the zone of cell division between the root cap and the primary meristems: procambium, ground meristem, and protoderm.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b apical\ulnone\b0  meristem\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about RNA for ten points each.\par
1. Along with Jacques Monod, this scientist presented the 1st unified view of messenger RNA transcription and translation.  He also proposed the operon model.\par
\tab Answer: Francois \ul\b Jacob\ulnone\b0\par
2. In addition to cytosine, the purine guanine can actually bind with this pyrimidine in RNA-DNA duplexes, which usually binds to adenine in RNA.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b uracil\ulnone\b0\par
3. The difference between DNA and RNA lies in the 2' group of this variety in RNA, which can hydrogen-bond with the nitrogens of other bases.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b hydroxy\ulnone\b0 l; or \ul\b alcohol\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Different functional groups have different stretching and bending vibrational excitations with frequencies proportional to strength of the bond and inversely proportional to the atomic masses.  For ten points each.\par
1. Plotting transmittance against wavenumber, this spectroscopic technique shows a fingerprint region from 600 to 1500 inverse cm, using long wavelength beams.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b i\ulnone\b0 nfra\ul\b r\ulnone\b0 ed spectroscopy\par
2. This functional group shows a high energy peak due to the stronger sp2 carbon hydrogen bond and different peaks for cis and trans isomers, unlike alcohols which has only one broad peak.  They are obtained from alcohols by dehydration-elimination.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b alkene\ulnone\b0 s\par
3. Calculated by 1/2 the difference between number of hydrogens in a molecule and number of hydrogens in an linear alkane equivalent, it is the sum of the number of rings and double ponds in a molecule, which is 4 for benzene and 1 for ethene.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b degree of unsaturation\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
Identify the following terms from basic topology for ten points each.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 1. This is a set that contains all its limit points.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b closed\ulnone\b0  set\par
2. This is a point in a set around which is a neighborhood in the set.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b interior\ulnone  \b0 point\par
3. This is a set whose every point is an interior point.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b open\ulnone  \b0 set\par
\pard\par
Literature (4/4).\par
\par
Calling himself a homunculus, this character is accidentally circumcised by a window shade.  Injuries like this seem to run in the family, as his uncle received a groin wound at Namur.  Correctly retelling the events of the battle becomes an obsession, a "hobby-horse" for Uncle Toby.  This title character's own hobby-horse, telling "a history of what happens in a man's own mind," causes him to make digressions throughout.  For ten points, name this "gentleman" whose "life and opinions" are the subject of a nine volume work by Laurence Sterne.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Tristram Shandy\b0\par
\ulnone\par
In a poem composed on death of his wife, he notes that she has "a Spanish body and a belly like a Swiss frau."  Called away from his studies under Ponocrates when the king of Lerne, Picrochole, invades the land of his father, he was carried for 11 months and born out of the left ear of his mother after she had eaten too much liver, while he shouts "drink, drink, drink."  With a name meaning "gullet," for ten points, identify this son of Grandgousier and Gargamelle, and father of Pantagruel, a title giant in a work of Francois Rabelais.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Gargantua\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Including visits to the Harvilles and to Lady Dalrymple, this novel begins with the letting of an estate neighboring Uppercross to the Admiral, which leads to another meeting between the protagonist and the brother of Mrs. Croft, whom she refused on the advice of Lady Russell.  Louisa Musgrove's fall off the steps on the Cobb led to her engagement to shy Captain Benwick.  Centering on the inhabitants of Kellynch Hall, for ten points, name this Jane Austen novel featuring the romance of Captain Wentworth and the gullible Anne Elliot.\par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Persuasion\i0\par
\pard\ulnone\b0\par
It ends with the protagonist's friend promising to recover the pukku and the mikku.  When his friend dreams of the house of dust and falls ill to die, the protagonist questions Siduri, then travels to the island at the end of the earth, ferried by Urshanabi.  Told to eat a plant at the bottom of the sea by Utnapishtim, he loses the herb to a snake, which gains the immortality promised.  Featuring rejection of Ishtar and wrestling with Enkidu, for ten points, name this epic found in 12 tablets in the library of Ashurbanipal, about the titular mortal king of Uruk.\par
\tab Answer: \i Epic of \ul\b Gilgamesh\i0\par
\ulnone\b0\par
For ten points each, answer these questions about an author.\par
1. He is the only author to have won the Prix Goncourt twice.  Other works of his include \i Forest of Anger \i0 and \i The Colors of the Day\i0 .  He also wrote and directed \i Birds Come to Die in Peru\i0  which was banned by the Cinema Control Commission.\par
\tab Answer: Romain \ul\b Gary\ulnone  \b0\par
2. Twice awarding the Prix Goncourt to one person is actually forbidden, but the academy did not realize what it was doing because Gary was writing under this pseudonym.\par
\tab Answer: Emil \ul\b Ajar\ulnone\b0\par
3. Name either book for which Gary was awarded the prize.  One is about the friendship between an orphan Momo and an older Jewish ex-prostitute and the other relates the story of a Frenchman in equatorial Africa trying to save the elephant from poachers and big game hunters.\par
\tab Answer: \i La \ul\b vie devant soi\ulnone\b0\i0  or the \ul\b\i Roots of Heaven\ulnone\b0\i0  (\ul\b\i Racines du ciel\ulnone\b0\i0 )\par
\par
For ten points each, given a list of poems, identify their shared verseform.\par
1. "The Waking" by Theodore Roethke, "If I Could Tell You" by W. H. Auden, and "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night" by Dylan Thomas.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b villanelle\ulnone\b0\par
2. "Piazza Piece" by John Crowe Ransom, "What lips my lips have kissed" by Edna St. Vincent Millay, and  "God's Grandeur" by Gerard Manley Hopkins.\par
\tab Answer: Petrarchan or Italian \ul\b sonnet\b0\par
\ulnone 3. "Miracle for Breakfast" by Elizabeth Bishop, "Complaint of Lisa" is a double one by Algernon Charles Swinburne, Ezra Pound wrote one "Altaforte." \par
\tab Answer: \ul\b sestina\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following related questions for ten points each.\par
1. Name the poet by lines.\par
(10 points) "Batter my heart, three person'd God; for, you, As yet but knock, breathe, shine, and seek to mend;"\par
(5 points) "No man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main."\par
\tab Answer: John \ul\b Donne\ulnone\b0\par
2. (10 points) Name the style of poetry written by Donne.\par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b Metaphysical\par
\pard\ulnone\b0 3. Name the related author.\par
(10 points) What author took a line from Donne's Meditation XVII for the title of his 1940 novel relating to the Spanish Civil War?\par
(5 points) Title: \i For Whom the Bells Toll\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Ernest \ul\b Hemingway\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Name the Chinese poet from description for ten points each.\par
1. Perhaps one of the most well-known Chinese poets, his poem "Still Night Thoughts" is recited everywhere.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Li Bai\ulnone\b0 , (accept also \ul\b Li Po\ulnone\b0 )\par
2. Unlike his contemporary, Li Bai, his poems reflect much more serious themes.  "Spring View" and "Journey North" are two of his poems.  Li Bai also pokes fun at him in one of his poems.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Du Fu\ulnone\b0  (accept also \ul\b Tu Fu\ulnone\b0 )\par
3. A statesman, artist and calligrapher as well, this Song dynasty poet came from a talented family.  He, his brother and his father all held the degree of \i jinshi\i0  for passing the national exams.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Su Shi\ulnone\b0  (accept also \ul\b Su Dong Po\ulnone\b0 )\par
\par
Religion, mythology, philosophy (3/3).\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In a Cecil B. DeMille film, this biblical figure did not escape to the court yard of Dagon.  Born in the valley of Sorek, she became frustrated when none of the bowstrings not yet dry, the new ropes never used, and the seven weaved locks of hair could contain the might of her lover.  Promised 1100 pieces of silver from each lord of the Philistines, she finally blinded him after discovering that if his head were shaved, then his strength would leave him.  For ten points, name this woman from Judges who died in the temple of Dagon when Samson crushed its pillars.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Delilah\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
He was sometimes called the Great God of Strength, Great Time, Three-Eyed One, or Aashutosh, meaning "he who is pleased by small offerings."  His hair is adorned with crescent moon, and he breaks the fall of the Ganges to earth as it trickles through.  He and Vishnu are sometimes visualized as a single divinity named Harihara.  The mirror image of Kali and father of Karttikeya and Ganesha, for ten points, name this Hindu deity often found in the Nataraja form as Lord of the Dance, a member of the Trimurti known as the restorer and the destroyer.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Shiva\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Siva\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Richard Dworkin criticized it for not emphasizing concern and respect.  Though failing to deal with risk aversion, this work attempted to counter a prevailing theory of normative ethics by putting forth the principles of liberty and maximin; that people should have equal rights, and differences or inequalities should be arranged to benefit the worst off.  Critiqued by \i Anarchy, State, and Utopia\i0 , by Robert Nozick, it suggests what people would choose in the original position behind a veil of ignorance.  For ten points, name this book by John Rawls on fairness.\par
\tab Answer: \i A \ul\b Theory of Justice\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about Adam and Eve for the stated number of points.\par
1. (5 points) Pishon, Gihon, Tigris, and Euphrates flow through this garden where Adam and Eve lived for a time.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Eden\ulnone\b0\par
2. (5 points) This animal convinced Eve to eat the fruit from the tree in the middle of Eden, causing her and Adam to be aware of good and evil.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b snake\ulnone\b0\par
3. (10 points) Eve gave birth to this son when Adam was 130 years old.  He is the father of Enosh and brother to Cain and the dead Abel.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Seth\ulnone\b0\par
4. (10 points) A direct descendant of Adam is this oldest living Biblical figure, the son of Enoch, father of Lamech, and grandfather of Noah, who lived 969 years.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Methuselah\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
Name these figures from Egyptian mythology for ten points each.\par
1. This dead king, husband, and brother of Isis, watches over the netherworld and is often depicted in his mummified form.  He is worshipped at Abydos and Philae, and is rejuvenated in his son Horus.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Osiris\ulnone\par
\b0 2. This goddess of love, dance, and alcohol, also sometimes the goddess of death, is usually depicted as a cow and also serves as a protector of women.  Before Isis came to be known as the mother of Horus, this goddess assumed that role.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Hathor\ulnone\par
\b0 3. This god of wisdom and sacred writings was worshipped as a baboon in Hermopolis.  His name rhymes with moth, goth, and sloth.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Thoth\ulnone\par
\b0\par
For ten points each, identify these ancient doctor/philosophers.\par
1. This man was believed to have lived sometime around the 4th century B. C. E.  He first put forth the idea of the four humors, and his oath is still used.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Hippocrates\ulnone\b0  of Cos\par
2. He was personal physician to Marcus Aurelius and gave the first description of the chambers of the human heart.  He also wrote treatises on logic and ethics which have not survived.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Galen\b0\par
\ulnone 3. This Arabian physician and philosopher's "Canon" was the principal text of medical schools in Europe and Asia for several centuries after his death in 1037 C. E.  He also wrote on metaphysics and theology.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Avicenna\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Fine arts (3/3).\par
\par
He completed only the preliminary "liturgical act" to his unfinished masterpiece and settled in Switzerland after marrying pianist Vera Isakovich.  He studied with Taneyev and Arensky at the Moscow conservatory, where he wanted to graduate a year early like friend Sergei Rachmaninoff, but his teachers refused.  He used a chord built on intervals of a fourth, and composed the unfinished \i Mystery\i0 , \i Prometheus: Song of Fire\i0 , and the symphony \i Divine Poem\i0 .  For ten points, name this Russian composer who claimed to see music in different colors. \par
\tab Answer: Alexander \ul\b Scriabin\ulnone\b0\par
\par
This painting was essentially unknown until 1882, when it was rediscovered and sold for the price of a reproduction.  The originally deep transparent green background today appears spotted and black as the painting hangs in the Mauritshuis in The Hague.  The titular figure wears a blue and yellow turban, as well as some pricey jewelry.  Sometimes called the "Mona Lisa of the North," for ten points, name this Jan Vermeer work, which inspired a novel by the same name by Tracy Chevalier as well as a film starring Scarlett Johansson.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Girl with a Pearl Earring\ulnone\b0\i0 ; accept reasonable equivalents containing the phrase "pearl earring" \b\par
\b0\par
In the right background of this painting, the silhouette of a lone tower feebly extends into the grandiose sky smeared with color.  On the bottom left, a pitchfork juts out of the ground next to a man who holds his hat and looks downward.  A basket sits on the ground between him and a second figure, a female in profile, whose mass partly blocks a wagon and who presses her hands together and appears to be praying.  For ten points, name this 1859 work by Jean-Francois Millet, the subject of an archeological reminiscence by Salvador Dali.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b Angelus\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
Answer the following music theory related questions.\par
1. (25 points) Four part harmony uses four different voices.  Name them for five points each.  An additional five points if they are named from high to low in correct order. \par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b Soprano\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Alto\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Tenor\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b Bass\par
\pard\ulnone\b0 2. (5 points) This note of the triad must never be doubled.\par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b Third\par
\pard\ulnone\b0\par
Name these people or concepts relating to a 1960's art movement for ten points each.\par
1. Also called "idea art," this movement was a reaction against formalism, and stressed the importance of the idea embodied by a work of art rather than the means by which it is created.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Conceptual\ulnone\b0  Art\par
2. This French artist of the earlier 20th century paved the way for the Conceptualists with pieces such as readymades that resisted categorization as artworks by virtue of their visual properties alone.\par
\tab Answer: Marcel \ul\b Duchamp\ulnone\b0\par
3. Conceptualism inspired this movement, founded in 1962 by George Maciunas, and often compared to Dada.  Focusing on the blending of different artistic disciplines, its participants included John Cage and Yoko Ono.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Fluxus\ulnone\par
\b0\par
Answer these questions about artwork with a common theme for ten points each.\par
1. This piece by Wassily Kandinsky was also the name of an artistic movement that he established with Franz Marc a few years earlier.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b Blue Rider\ulnone\i0\par
\b0 2. This 1770 painting by Thomas Gainsborough is of Johnathan Buttall, who appears classically posed in a flamboyant costume.\par
\tab Answer: \i The\b  \ul Blue Boy\ulnone\i0\par
\b0 3. In these four similarly titled works of a series completed between 1952 and 1954 by Henri Matisse, the representation of the human figure reaches its highest degree of abstraction.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b Blue Nude\ulnone\i0\par
\b0\par
Geography (1/1).\par
\par
Many of its inhabitants were transferred to Norfolk island in 1856.  Rediscovered by Philip Cateret, this island is part of a group that contains Henderson, Ducie, and Oeno, and contains the village of Adamstown.  A creole language formed here from the interaction of Tahitian and an 18th century dialect of English.  About half-way between Peru and New Zealand, it has about 50 inhabitants, the least populated country of the world.  With a tradition of sexual abuse of young girls, for ten points, name this island occupied by mutineers of HMS Bounty.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Pitcairn\ulnone\b0  island\par
\par
For ten points each.\par
1. Also called the Mazandaran Sea, the Khazar Sea, and the Khvalissian Sea, this is the world's largest inland body of water.  Although the Volga and Ural rivers discharge into this lake, often listed as the world's largest, it is technically endorheic, since there is no natural outflow.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Caspian\ulnone  \b0 Sea\par
2. Since WWII, this largest lake in Europe has been located in Karelia in northwestern Russia, but in earlier times, it served as part of the border between Sweden and Russia, and later between Finland and Russia.  The lake boasts a native Ringed Seal subspecies.\par
\tab Answer: Lake\b  \ul Ladoga\ulnone\par
\b0 3. This largest freshwater lake in Asia and deepest lake in the world is located in southern Siberia between Irkutsk Oblast and Buryatia.  The Nerpa, a native species of earless seal, is the only mammal living in the lake.\par
\tab Answer: Lake \ul\b Baikal\ulnone\par
\b0\par
Social science (1/1).\par
\par
He is currently working on language understanding in twins and the neuroimaging of inflection.  In 2004, this psychologist was named one of \i Time Magazine\i0 's 100 Most Influential people.  A book reviewer once described this man as the only linguist he knew who was able to write readable prose.  After 21 years at MIT, he now teaches at Harvard, and is most well-known for his work on language acquisition.  For ten points, name this author of \i The Blank Slate\i0  and \i The Language Instinct\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Steven \ul\b Pinker\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Name these things related to sociolinguistics for ten points each.\par
1. This sociolect of American English has particular grammatical features such as be-marking for aspect (as in "he be eatin' rice"), present tense uninflected verbs (as in "she write poetry"), and multiple negations.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Black English Vernacular\ulnone\b0  (or) \ul\b Ebonics\ulnone\b0  (or) \ul\b Black English\ulnone\b0  (or) \ul\b African-American Vernacular English\ulnone\b0\par
2. This term describes the alternating between different languages or dialects in the middle of discourse.  It is common among bilingual communities and families.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b code-switching\ulnone\par
\b0 3. This is a variety of a language unique to an individual person.  It can easily evolve into an ecolect--a dialect variant specific to a household.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b idiolect\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Other academic (3/3).\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He rallies his troops by declaring "the king's name is a tower of strength," and declared "I have set my life upon a cast, and I will stand the hazard of the die."  "Cheated of feature by dissembling nature," he tells Anne that he is fit for but one place: her bed chamber.  "Sent before [his] time into this breathing world scarce half made up," he plots the murder of Clarence and destroys Buckingham for rebeling.  Claiming that the sun of York made glorious summer out of winter of our discontent, for ten points, name this Shakespearean monarch in want of a horse.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Richard III\ulnone\b0 ; or Duke of \ul\b Gloucester\b0\i\par
\ulnone\i0\par
This concept, first developed in scholastic philosophy, was revived by the psychologist Franz Brentano, who thought it was the primary criterion with which to distinguish psychical phenomena and physical phenomena.  According to John Searle, perception and action are examples of this mental phenomenon, which is aspectual, representational, and has a direction of fit.  Used by Edmund Husserl to describe the relationship between mental states and the external world, for ten points, name this mental property, sometimes called "aboutness."\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Intentionality\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He flirts with Margaret, asking her to sing "To Swabia," accompanied by an out-of-tune piano.  She notices a dark red stain on his right hand, while he rushes off to search for the knife with which he killed his lover.  Earlier in the tavern Andres sings "A hunter from the Pfalz," while he talks to an idiot about blood, which, together with the handsome Drum-Major's triumphant Sprechgesang, prompted him to kill his lover Marie.  For ten points, name this titular character in an atonal opera by Alban Berg.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Wozzeck\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name the novels from opening lines that all refer to similar things on a 10-5 basis.\par
1. (10 points) "'Yes, of course, if it's fine tomorrow,' said Mrs. Ramsay.  'But you'll have to be up with the lark,' she added."\par
(5 points) Written by Virginia Woolf.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i To the Lighthouse\ulnone\b0\i0\par
2. (10 points) "I begin a pilgrimage.  In October, 1917, we had succeeded, my friend B. and I, in dispensing with almost three of our six months' engagement as Voluntary Drivers, Sanitary Section 21, Ambulance Norton Harjes, American Red Cross, and at the moment"\par
(5 points) Written by E. E. Cummings.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b Enormous Room\ulnone\b0\i0\par
3. (10 points) "There was no possibility of taking a walk that day."\par
(5 points) Written by Charlotte Bronte.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Jane Eyre\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\pard\par
Name these "isms" from the history of the philosophy of mind for ten points each.\par
1. Associated with Descartes and the Cartesian tradition, this is the idea that the mind and the body lie in two separate metaphysical realms.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Dualism\ulnone\b0\par
2. This theory of the mind has its origin in the work of the Vienna School and holds that mental states can be defined entirely in terms of input and output.  Proponents of it relied on strict logical analysis for an interpretation of the mind.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Logical Behaviorism\ulnone\b0\par
3. This, the most popular contemporary materialistic theory of the mind, considers the defining characteristics of a mental state to be its causal role.  A specific variant of it holds that the mind is essentially a computer, and this is the founding assumption of the field of cognitive science.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Functionalism\ulnone\b0\par
\par
She wrote poetry under the pseudonym Anne Singleton, but did more academic work with her first book \i Tales of the Cochiti Indians\i0 .  For ten points each.\par
1. Name this American anthropologist whose services for the Office of War Information culminated in \i The Chrysanthemum and the Sword\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Ruth \ul\b Benedict\ulnone\b0\par
2. Benedict spent 11 years studying the folklore of the Apache, Pueblo, Serrano, and Blackfoot indians, as well as the mythology of the titular people in a 1935 work.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Zuni\ulnone\b0  Mythology\i0\par
3. Comparing the differing ranges of Zuni, Kwakiutl, and Dobu behaviors, Benedict argues in this work that the personality of a society defines individual successes.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Patterns of Culture\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
Pop culture sports (2/2).\par
\par
A runner stranded at 3rd after what looks to be a run-scoring double in the 8th haunted the losing team in game 7 of this World Series, played by teams that beat Toronto and Pittsburgh for their league championships.  Of the seven games, four were decided on the final pitch, three went to extra innings, including the last two games, and five were decided by one run.  In game 7, Jack Morris pitched ten innings, and the game remained scoreless until the bottom of the tenth, when Gene Larkin ended it.  For ten points, Minnesota beat Atlanta in this World Series.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b 1991\ulnone\b0\par
\par
She had the best lawn on Wisteria Lane until Martha Huber dropped a collapsed jogger into her hydrangeas.  Her attempts to preserve her marriage to Rex include sabotaging his mattress and trying to steal the tape of his session from Dr. Goldfine, but she also almost kills Rex by giving him onions and reveals at a dinner party that he cries after ejaculating.  Rex eventually comes back when her son Andrew hits Mrs. Solis with a car.  For ten points, name this red-haired \i Desperate Housewife\i0 , played by Marcia Cross.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Bree Van De Kamp\ulnone\b0 ; accept either first or last name\par
\par
For ten points each, answer these questions about a recent occurrence of the \i Sports Illustrated \i0 cover curse.\par
1. A recent issue of Sports Illustrated featured its top 20 men's college basketball picks.  This ACC team, coached by Roy Williams, held the number one spot.\par
\tab Answer: University of \ul\b North Carolina\ulnone\b0\par
2. A few days after this issue came out UNC lost its opener 66-77 to this unranked team.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Santa Clara\ulnone\b0  University\par
3. Featured on the cover of the issue was this junior forward-guard and star of the UNC squad.\par
\tab Answer: Rashad \ul\b McCants\b0\par
\ulnone\par
On November 16, 2004, Santa Monica police asked for rapper David Darnell Brown to turn himself in for questioning regarding the stabbing of Jimmy James Johnson.  For ten points each.\par
1. By what name is Brown, a member of 50 Cent's G-Unit posse, better known?\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Young Buck\ulnone\b0\par
2. The stabbing took place at this event, the second ever held, which honors hip-hop and R&B artists.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Vibe\ulnone\b0  Awards\par
3. Johnson was stabbed after attacking this man, who was receiving a Legend Award for his work producing artists such as Snoop Dog, Eminem, and Blackstreet.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Dr. Dre\ulnone\b0  or (Andre \ul\b Young\ulnone\b0 )\par
\par
Current events (1/1).\par
\par
Hospitalized while working on a book on the Bataan death march, this graduate of the University of Illinois and Johns Hopkins told the story of a JPL professor who boarded the ship \i President Cleveland \i0 for his home country after being falsely accused of being a spy, a book titled after the Don Fong missile program, \i Thread of the Silkworm\i0 .  Author of \i The Chinese in America: A Narrative History\i0 , for ten points, name this depressed journalist who recently committed suicide, after bringing into public awareness \i The Rape of Nanking\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Iris \ul\b Chang\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the follow for the stated number of points.\par
1. (10 points) This European nation's recent prime minister election has been the subject of serious contention.\par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b Ukraine\par
\pard\ulnone\b0 2. (10  points) Tens of thousands of people gathered outside this city's Independence Square to protest the result.\par
\pard\keepn\s1\tab Answer: \ul\b Kiev\par
\pard\ulnone\b0 3. (5 points) Name the challenger in this election, he claims that the election was rigged against him.\par
\tab Answer: Viktor\b  \ul Yushchenko\par
\ulnone\b0 4. (5 points) Name the current prime minister who won reelection.\par
\tab Answer: Viktor\b  \ul Yanukovych\par
\ulnone\b0\par
}
 