{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Drake-2005\par
Questions by Cal Berkeley (Ray Luo).\par
\par
\f1 4/4 literature\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The hero takes Karen to the Bioscope Theater, where he experiences the one-way intimacy of cinema whose phantoms can only seem to see us but not respond to us.  Criticizing the prostitution of technical skill to contemptible performance, the critic Settembrini would characterize it as repugnant to the humanist.  On Walpurgisnacht, Clavdia Chauchat meets Hans Castorp who is visiting his cousin in a sanatorium.  FTP name this Thomas Mann novel taking place where time flies.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i Der \ul Zauberberg\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Magic Mountain\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Helen Parker is appreciative of Cutler's arrangements, and meets her old flame Tony Lazar while on board.  Lazar brings the friend of Parker in a white dress below deck, where Long and Paddy are ordered around by the stoker Smith.  Verbally abused by Mildred Douglas, Yank goes to the zoo, where he releases an animal that finally kills him.  FTP name this Eugene O'Neill play about Yank Smith, whom Mildred Douglas called the titular animal.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The \ul Hairy Ape\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Asking God if "he smile his work to see," this poem is about "what the hand dare seize the fire?"  "When the stars threw down their spears" to water heaven, in what furnace was its brain, and how could the sinews of its heart be twisted?  Made by he who made the lamb, "in what distant deeps or skies burnt the fire of thine eyes?"  Asking "what mortal hand or eye could frame thy fearful symmetry?" FTP name this title animal "burning bright in the forests of the night" in a poem by William Blake.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "The \ul Tyger\ulnone "\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 This author thought his last play was a comedy, but all the critics and reviewers thought it was a tragedy.  Born near the Sea of Azov, he once travelled through Siberia to Sakhalin and back via the Suez Canal, recording his account of the penal settlements he saw in the 1892 work \i Sakhalin Island\i0 .  Known for his plotless plays where characters like Gayev and Trofimov speak in solioquies, FTP name this Russian author of "The Steppe," "Ward No. 6," \i Uncle Vanya\i0 , and \i The Cherry Orchard\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Anton \ul Chekhov\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Novels by Willa Cather.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This story of a Colorado woman, Thea Kronberg, who realizes her talent as an opera diva, was more optimistic than Cather's other musical biography \i Lucy Gayheart\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Song of the Lark\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This story of a daughter of Swedish immigrants, Alexandra Bergson, who succeeds despite the resentment of her neighbors and brothers, established Cather's career.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i O Pioneers\ulnone !\i0\par
(10)  This story of Myra Henshawe's marriage against her family's wishes and subsequent regret is told by Nellie Birdseye.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i My Mortal Enemy\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Tragedies by Jean Racine.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The titular wife of Theseus commits suicide after accusations of her step son Hippolytus making advances on her.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Phedre\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Attempting to win Junia, Nero poisons the titular half brother at a banquet.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Britannicus\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  A subject for Duchess d'Orleans' contest for Racine and Corneille, the titular queen of Palestine separates from Titus, who must obey the will of his people.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Berenice\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Give the following terms used in poetry.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The repetition of the same or similar vowel sounds, especially in words close to each other.\par
\tab Answer: \ul assonance\ulnone\par
(10)  Also called echoism, it is a sequence of words whose sound resembles the actual sound it denotes.\par
\tab Answer: \ul onomatopoeia\ulnone\par
(10)  As opposed to traditional single stress rhyme, this type of rhyme contains the concurrence of the stressed syllable and the unstressed syllable following it.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul feminine\ulnone  rhyme\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these characters from Henry James novels.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This dull-witted heiress from \i Washington Square\i0  is the subject of intrigue involving Morris Townsend until he finds out she intends to be disinherited.\par
\tab Answer: Catherine \ul Sloper\ulnone\par
(10)  Merton Densher is in love with the memory of this rich heiress, who knows of his relationship with Kate Croy in \i Wings of the Dove\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Milly \ul Theale\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone (10)  She falls into the grasp of Gilbert Osmond and Serena Merle, before finally returning to see the dying Ralph Touchett, and is the subject of \i Portrait of a Lady\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Isabel \ul Archer\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
4/4 science\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Metabolic tunneling is demonstrated in this process when BPG is skipped over in the formation of 3PG as triose phosphate dehydrogenase and phosphoglycerate kinase merge.  The rate limiting irreversible step is governed by phosphofructokinase, while aldolase breaks open the carbon-oxygen ring and enolase rids two molecules of water in forming PEP.  FTP name this pathway that yields 2 reduced NADHs and 2 ATPs by converting glucose to pyruvate.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul glycolysis\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Moisture dependent broadening can be seen with hydroxyl and mercapto groups in this technique, where tetrachloromethane is usually used as solvent and rotamers are resolved by freezing to enter an appropriate time scale.  Operating in Fourier transform and continuous wave modes, it can result in N+1 peaks for each atom surrounded by N equivalent neighbors in spin-spin splitting.  FTP name this technique of spectroscopy that measures recoil frequencies of protons or carbons.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul n\ulnone uclear \ul m\ulnone agnetic \ul r\ulnone esonance spectroscopy\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 It can be differentiated with repect to temperature in constant volume to give minus the entropy.  Derived by making the isochoric entropy change in the universe greater than or equal to zero, its change is -P Delta V minus S Delta T, or the reversible work, or maximum total work that can be done by the system.  At constant temperature and volume, it is less than zero for spontaneous processes.  Equal to U minus TS, FTP name this analog of Gibbs free energy named for a German physicist.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Helmholtz\ulnone  free energy\par
\f1\par
\f0 Supported by Milton Humason's photographs of distant galaxies, it came out of work by Willem de Sitter disproving Einstein's cosmological constant, and by Alexander Friedmann reproduced by a Belgian astronomer.  Coined on a radio show by its opponent Fred Hoyle, it was argued for in \i The Primeval Atom\i0  by Georges-Henri Lemaitre.  Dicke and Peebles' interpretation of Penzias and Wilson's background radiation matched George Gamow's calculation of, FTP this theory of cosmology from a single point.\par
\tab Answer: \ul big bang\ulnone  theory\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these types of mutations.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This type of mutation involves a single base change.\par
\tab Answer: \ul point\ulnone  mutation\par
(10)  This type of point mutation substitutes one amino acid for another.\par
\tab Answer: \ul missense\ulnone  mutation\par
(10)  This type of point mutation introduces of a premature stop codon.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul nonsense\ulnone  mutation\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 With formula (CH_2O)_n, they are formally polyhydroxy carbonyls.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this class of polyfunctional compounds consisting of monosaccharides, oligosaccharides, and polysaccharides, just another way to say sugars.\par
\tab Answer: \ul carbohydrate\ulnone s\par
(10)  Monosaccharides are divided into aldoses and this category, whose members have an internal carbonyl group, as opposed to the chain-terminating aldehyde group.\par
\tab Answer: \ul ketose\ulnone s\par
(10)  These are two carbohydrates that differ in the stereochemical configuration around only one carbon atom, e.g. glucose and mannose only differ at C-2, glucose and galactose only differ at C-4.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul epimer\ulnone s\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Laws of blackbody radiation.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The wavelength at maximum spectral radiancy times temperature is constant, or the frequency at maximum spectral radiancy increases linearly with temperature.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Wien\ulnone 's law\par
(10)  The total energy emitted per unit time per unit area of a blackbody is proportional to the 4th power of the temperature.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Stefan\ulnone -Boltzmann law\par
(10)  Named for a German, this law for radiation states that at equilibrium, the emission rate of a blackbody equals its absorption rate.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Kirchhoff\ulnone 's law for radiation\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Definitions in topology.  FTPE.\par
(10)  A set on which is defined a positive definite, symmetric distance function between points satisfying the Triangle Inequality.\par
\tab Answer: \ul metric space\ulnone\par
(10)  A point in a set for which there exists a sequence in the set that converges to it.\par
\tab Answer: \ul limit\ulnone  point\par
(10)  A set that contains all its limit points.\par
\tab Answer: \ul closed\ulnone  set\par
\pard\f1\par
4/4 history\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The 1st attack was directed at William T. Sherman from the 6th Mississippi.  After six hours, the Iowa and Illinois troops of Benjamin Prentiss finally gave way near Sarah Bell's peach orchard at the so called Hornet's Nest.  Next day, Don Carlos Buell's army of Ohio arrive late to trash the rebels now led by P. G. T. Beauregard.  Albert Sydney Johnston had attacked Grant from Corinth before getting shot and bleeding to death in, FTP this battle taking place in Tennessee.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Shiloh\ulnone ; or \ul Pittsburg Landing\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Ordered to retreat from Saint-Denis along with Jean, duc d'Alencon, this military leader left the king to join Renaud de Chartres and Louis de Bourbon at Soissons, then sneaked into Compiegne to defend it against John of Luxembourg, a Burgundian captain.  Picking out the dauphin at Chinon, who later had Calixtus III annul the sentence of 1431, this native of Domremy was guided by inner voices to triumph at Orleans for her king Charles VII.  FTP name this saint tried and burned in Rouen.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Jeanne d'Arc\ulnone ; or \ul Joan of Arc\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Revolts broke out soon after his death and the dynasty he established in 221 B.C. extinguished in 20 years.  Taking his title from a formulation previously reserved for deities, he consolidated his rule by burning the books of dissenting Confucian scholars.  To fend off barbarian intrusion, he consolidated the fortifications built by warring states into the Great Wall.  Unifying China for the first time, FTP name this founder of the Qin (Ch'in) dynasty.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Shi Huang Di\ulnone ; or \ul First Emperor\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 They distribute straw and ashes at the beginning of Parilia, and were a subject of an opera by Gaspare Spontini.  Founded by Numa Pompilius, they had ten year terms of learning, performance, and teaching, and enjoyed freedom from parental rule.  Free from physical and mental defects, they were selected by the Pontifex Maximus, and generally didn't marry afterwards because it was unlucky.  Buried alive if their vows of chastity were broken, FTP name these priestesses of the Roman goddess of hearth.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Vestal virgin\ulnone s; or \ul Vestale\ulnone s\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 It was formed in Buffalo, NY from barnburner NY Democrats, Liberty party members, and so called "conscience" Whigs, after the failure of the Wilmot Proviso.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this political party that opposed allowing slavery in western territories.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Free-Soil\ulnone  party\par
(10)  The Free-Soil party ran this former US president for the 1848 election, polling 10 percent of the popular vote, helping to elect Whig Zachary Taylor.\par
\tab Answer: Martin \ul Van Buren\ulnone\par
(10)  The Free-Soil party ran this senator for the presidency in 1852.  He authored a bill abolishing flogging in the navy and was later minister to Spain after the war.\par
\pard\tab Answer: John Parker \ul Hale\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following about the 1919 treaty of Versaille.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The US never ratified Woodrow Wilson's agreement but instead signed this other treaty with Germany in 1921.\par
\tab Answer: treaty of \ul Berlin\ulnone\par
(10)  France was represented at the Paris Peace conference by this premier.\par
\tab Answer: Georges \ul Clemenceau\ulnone\par
(10)  This area, including Bas-Rhin, Haut-Rhin, and Moselle, on the border of France and Germnay, west of the Rhine, was returned to France.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Alsace-Lorraine\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Identify these explorers.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In quest of golden cities that turned out to be adobe pueblos, he wandered through Arizona, New Mexico, and Kansas in 1540-1542, discoverying the Grand Canyon.\par
\tab Answer: Francisco \ul Coronado\ulnone\par
(10)  He looked for gold north of the Arkansas River.  Dying of fever, his body was secretly buried in the Mississippi, lest the Indians abused it.\par
\tab Answer: Hernando \ul de Soto\ulnone\par
(10)  Burning his ships to prevent retreat, he drove into the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan and overwhelmed emperor Montezuma.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Hernando \ul Cortes\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these Mexican presidents.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This Oaxaca governor took part in the Ayutla revolution ousting Santa Anna and established seat of government at Veracruz, confiscating church property.  Suspension of payment for foreign debts led to his temporary exile under Maximilian's rule.\par
\tab Answer: Benito \ul Juarez\ulnone\par
(10)  Educated at Cal, he wrote \i La succession presidencial en 1910\i0  urging voters not to reelect Diaz.  Imprisoned during the election, he fled to Texas and returned with military support to take Ciudad Juarez.  He was quickly overthrown by Huerta.\par
\tab Answer: Francisco Indalecio \ul Madero\ulnone\par
(10)  A supporter of Madero, he overthrew Huerta but was driven from Mexico City by Zapata and Villa.  Elected president based on programs of social and agrarian reform, he failed to achieve them and was driven by Obregon to Puebla, where he was killed.\par
\tab Answer: Venustiano \ul Carranza\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
3/3 religion-myth-philosophy\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 This religion worships the river goddess Anahita borrowed from Elamites.  The seven chapters portion of its Yasna warns against the use of the intoxicating Haoma, while its Vendidad codifies law and ritual, such as slaughter of crawling animals and placement of corpses on towers of silence for vultures to prey on.  Souls are judged at the Bridge of Discrimination, and followers of asha and Ahura Mazda are separated from those of druj and Ahriman.  FTP name this religion of Persia preached in Avesta.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Zoroastrian\ulnone ism\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Persia Wooley and Parke Godwin wrote novels from her point of view.  Played on the big screen by Ava Gardner and Vanessa Redgrave, she is the subject of poems by Sara Teasdale and Dorothy Parker.  Said to have been abducted by Meleagant, she was the daughter of Leodegrance of Cameliard, and becames a nun at Almesbury.  William Morris and Tennyson both defended her, noting that her affairs with Mordred and other Knights of the Round Table have been exaggerated.  FTP name this wife of Arthur.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Guinevere\ulnone ; or \ul Gwenhwyvar\ulnone ; or \ul Guanhumara\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 He refused to accept the chair of philosophy at Heidelberg because he wanted the freedom to pursue his ideas wherever the search for truth might lead him.  Inspired by Descartes, he set out to write a geometry of philosophy that would explain the whole system of reality.  Unlike Descartes, he avoided the mind-body problem by postulating a single substance he called God or Nature with various attributes.  FTP name this Pantheist lens-grinder who left Amsterdam to publish his \i Ethics\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Baruch \ul Spinoza\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these books of the Old Testament.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Named for a herdsman prophet during the reign of Jeroboam II and coming after Joel, it demanded exemplary obedience from Jews and forsaw the destruction of Israel.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Amos\ulnone\par
(10)  Following Amos, this shortest book of the Old Testament foretells the fall of Edom, after Edomites helped in the capture of Jerusalem.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Obadiah\ulnone\par
(10)  This book's prophet tries to run from God's command to preach at Nineveh, but is thrown overboard after a tempest, swallowed by a whale, and does what he is told.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Jonah\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these Hindu goddesses, or aspects of Devi.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Her discussions with husband Shiva are found in the Tantras.  Identified with Uma, this benevolent "daughter of the mountain" gave birth to Skanda and Ganesha.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Parvati\ulnone\par
(10)  Born fully grown from the flames produced by the Trimurti, this "invincible" form of Shakti rides a lion to battle with the buffalo demon Mahisasura.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Durga\ulnone\par
(10)  She sprang out of the head of Durga to battle Raktabija.  Adorned by a girdle of arms and a necklace of skulls, this "black" goddess likes to dance on Shiva.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Kali\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Who is the author of?  10-5.\par
(10)  \i What is Art?\i0\par
(5)  Apparently he liked his own works of art best, like \i Anna Karenina\i0  for example.\par
\tab Answer: Lev Nikolayevich \ul Tolstoy\ulnone\par
(10)  \i What is Metaphysics?\i0\par
(5)  Let's hope metaphysics has nothing to do with his \i Being and Time\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Martin \ul Heidegger\ulnone\par
(10)  \i What is Life?\i0\par
(5)  He was living at Dublin's Institute of Advanced Studies while writing it.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Erwin \ul Schrodinger\par
\ulnone\f1\par
2/2 social science-geography\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 He claimed that lifestyles for goals of perfection formed early in childhood and taught at Columbia and Long Island Collge of Medicine after starting the 1st child-guidance clinic in Vienna.  Author of \i What Life Should Mean to You\i0  and \i Superiority and Social Interest\i0 , he noted that failed adjustment for physical and mental defects causes neurosis, breaking with Freud in \i Study of Organ Inferiority and Its Psychical Compensation\i0  and \i The Neurotic Constitution\i0 .  FTP name this individual psychologist.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Alfred \ul Adler\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\f0 Its rivers include Mahakam flowing east into Samarinda and Barito flowing south near near Banjarmasin.  James Brooke was made a raja in the north after suppressing a rebellion, but the Dutch eventually returned the southern Kalimantan region.  With highest peak at Mt. Kinabalu, it contains Dayak aboriginals and Chinese immigrants, and lies southwest of Sulu Sea and north of Java Sea.  Containing Sabah and Sarawak Malay portions as well as Brunei, FTP name this 3rd largest island in the world.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Borneo\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Phonological terms.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Predictable variants of a phoneme that are found in complementary distribution.\par
\tab Answer: \ul allophone\ulnone s\par
(10)  The set of constraints on how sequences of segments pattern, forming a speaker's knowledge of the phonological rules of her language.\par
\tab Answer: \ul phonotactic\ulnone s\par
(10)  Syllables with a coda or with two elements in the nucleus.\par
\tab Answer: \ul heavy\ulnone  syllables\par
\pard\f1\par
\f0 Name these rivers of western Europe.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Rising in Krkonose on the Polish border, it snaps back into the Czech Republic before flowing into Dresden then northwest to Hamburg, emptying into the North Sea.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Elbe\ulnone ; or \ul Labe\ulnone\par
(10)  Formed at Chur in Switzerland, it passes through Lake Constance, flows west of Black Forest, joined by Neckar and Main, branching into Lek and Waal near Rotterdam.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Rhine\ulnone\par
(10)  Also called Sequana, it begins near Dijon, flowing past Paris and Rouen into the English Channel near Le Havre, receiving the Marne and the Oise.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Seine\par
\ulnone\f1\par
2/2 fine arts\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The main character of this film falls in love with an architect active in politics, whose wife is away in the mountains.  She already knew the taste of his blood as she heard the bells of St. Stephen 14 years before, for eternity.  Walking around the museum 4 times amidst those whose hair fell off when they slept, she acts in a film about peace and returns to France tomorrow.  FTP name this New Wave feature about love and the atomic catastrophe by Alain Resnais [pron: RENE].\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Hiroshima mon amour\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The long crescendo in Act I culminates in the arrest of a drunken soldier and his subsequent release to everyone's surprise in the song "Fredda ed immobile."  Also set to music by Giovanni Paisiello, this opera shares an aria with \i La Cenenrentola\i0 .  Don Basilio sings "La calunnia," showing how a slanderous rumor can spread like a scandal, while the titular character sings "Largo al factotum" as his master Almaviva serenades Rosina.  FTP name this Rossini opera about the hair-cutting Figaro.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i Il \ul barbiere di Siviglia\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Barber of Seville\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 He painted his mother as Prophetess Anna and his wife Saskia as Flora.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this Dutch painter of late Biblical works like \i Potiphar's Wife Accusing Joseph\i0 , \i Supper at Emmaus\i0 , and \i The Syndics of the Drapers' Guild\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \ul Rembrandt\ulnone  van Rijn\par
(10)  The militia men appearing in this Rembrandt work paid according to their rank within the painting.  Cropped when moved to the Amsterdam town hall, name this work originally titled \i The Shooting Company of Captain Frans Banning Cocq\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Night Watch\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This Rembrandt work depicts regents of the guild of surgeons gathered around the namesake for a lecture and a dissection of the left arm of a cadaver.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The \ul Anatomy Lesson\ulnone  of Dr. Nicholaes \ul Tulp\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Near the end of the 4th movement, a baritone voice calls "oh friends, not these tones! let us raise our voices in more pleasing and more joyful sounds!"  FTPE.\par
(10)  Give the number for this symphony by Ludwig van Beethoven featuring Schiller's "Ode to Joy."\par
\tab Answer: Symphony No. \ul 9\ulnone  in D minor\par
(10)  With an piano introduction initially improvised by Beethoven, this 1808 work with voice and piano was the inspiration for the 9th symphony's finale.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Choral Fantasy\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Fantasia in C for Piano, Chorus, and Orchestra\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  What word did Leonard Bernstein substitute for the word "joy" or "freude" in the finale of the 9th in a famous historic 1989 performance in Berlin?\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul freedom\ulnone ; or \ul freiheit\ulnone\par
\f1\par
2/2 more lit-science-history\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 She can't believe that Flannery O'Connor's house is still being taken care of, even though nobody's living in it.  A student of Muriel Rukeyser, who helped publish her first book of poems, she wrote stories like "To Hell with Dying" and "Everyday Use," collected in \i In Love and Trouble\i0 .  A daughter of Georgia sharecroppers, her best known novel features letters exchanged between Celie and Nettie.  FTP name this author of \i Revolutionary Petunias\i0 , \i The Temple of My Familiar\i0 , and \i The Color Purple\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Alice \ul Walker\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 A synthetic version of it is a herbicide lethal to dicots: 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid.  Young pith treated with cytokinins turn into buds, and into roots when this is added.  Transported polar from apex to base, it alters bonds in cellulose matrix, releasing protons to loosen the cell wall.  Darwin covered canary grass to find some thing traveling from the coleoptile tip to the growing region, later found by Fritz Went to be this.  Not gibberellin, FTP name this growth hormone responsive to light.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul auxin\ulnone ; or \ul indoleacetic acid\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these legislations during Grover Cleveland's presidency.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This selectively high tariff of Cleveland's 2nd term of office never got his signature, but became law anyways.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Wilson-Gorman\ulnone  Tariff\par
(10)  This 1890 act, a favorite of pro-silver Democrats, was repealed following the 1893 depression, drawing enmity from Cleveland's fellow Democrats.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Sherman Silver Purchase\ulnone  Act\par
\pard\nowidctlpar (10)  This allotment act attempted to distribute land to Native Americans, but ended up giving up much of it to whites, further impoverishing the tribes.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Dawes\ulnone  Act\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these ubiquitous Shakespearean characters.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The friend of Bassanio who goes with him to Belmont and marries Nerissa in \i The Merchant of Venice\i0 ; the uncle of Desdemona arriving in Cyprus in \i Othello\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Gratiano\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone (10)  The sister of Kate courted by Gremio, Hortensio, and Lucentio in \i The Taming of the Shrew\i0 ; the girlfriend of Cassio who gives back the handkerchief in \i Othello\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Bianca\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone (10)  The brother of Alonso, king of Naples, too cowardly to murder Alonso in \i The Tempest\i0 ; the brother of Viola with whom Olivia falls in love in \i Twelfth Night\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \ul Sebastian\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
2/2 your choice\par
\f0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He never got any attention when he was a kid, except that one time when his neighbor's mother died and he followed her to a collapsing bridge.  He hid behind his uniform when he returned home with Zack to Nibelheim because he never made it as a Soldier.  But he kept his promise to Tifa by saving her and stabbing her assailant in the back.  A hero infused with Mako energy, he saves the world from Sephiroth.  FTP name this main character of \i Final Fantasy VII\i0  named after his foggy state of mind.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Cloud\ulnone  Strife\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name's the same.  The titular story by Berrian about love "unfretted by artificial barriers created by differences in station or possessions," read by Julian West in \i Looking Backward\i0 .  The name Toby Belch addresses Maria by when he bids her good night in Act 2 of \i Twelfth Night\i0 .  A Hugo Wolf symphonic poem and a Heinrich von Kleist drama.  FTP give the name shared by an Amazon queen killed by Achilles at Troy before he fell in love with her.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Penthesilea\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar They won't be given out this season, but name the NHL trophies anyways.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Most valuable player.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Hart\ulnone  trophy\par
(10)  Top rookie.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Calder\ulnone  trophy.\par
(10)  Top coach.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Adams\ulnone  trophy.\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Audrey Hepburn films.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Stanley Donen directs Albert Finney as a faithful virgin-detecting husband who wouldn't have him and Hepburn going their separate paths.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Two for the Road\ulnone\i0\par
\pard (10)  William Wyler directs Gregory Peck as a journalist who falls for Hepburn the princess in the capital of Italy, garnering Hepburn a best actress Oscar.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Roman Holiday\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar (10)  Mel Ferrer directs Tony Perkins as an adventurer who discovers beauty embodied by Hepburn in the houses in the middle of the Amazon forests.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Green Mansions\ulnone\i0\par
\par
}
 