{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 This Tournament Goes to Eleven 7, 2005.\par
Social science packet by UCLA and California.\par
"I Am the Lie, You Are My Victim."\par
Questions by Paul Lujan (Cal) and Ray Luo (UCLA).\par
\par
22/22 total\par
6/6 psychology\par
5/5 economics\par
4/4 anthropology\par
4/4 sociology\par
3/3 linguistics\par
\par
This distribution is based subjectively on my impression of the approximate rate of occurrence of each topic above in tournaments of the last 3 to 4 years.  Note: this packet is sorted by the categories above.  RL.\par
\par
6/6 psychology\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It can be demonstrated by having subjects compare the weights of two objects placed in a heavy vessel, vs their comparison in isolation.  Its namesake constant is always less than one, and indicates the proportion by which a standard must be changed so that the change can be detected 50% of the time, and is given by delta I over I.  It states that the difference threshold increases linearly with the stimulus intensity, a fact Fechner used to derive his namesake logarithmic law.  FTP name this law of psychophysics named for a German psychologist, also called law of sensation.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Weber\ulnone 's law\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It influenced Hans Wallach and Rudolf Arnheim, and arose out of the idea of imageless thoughts by Oswald Kulpe.  Reification, multistability, emergence, and psychophysical isomorphism are principles associated with it, and Fritz Perls came up with a therapy named for it.  Christian von Ehrenfels coined it, but its central tenants are the law of Pragnanz and global field effects like phi phenomena.  Advanced by Lewin, Koffka, Kohler and Wertheimer, FTP name this anti-association theory of perceptual wholeness.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Gestalt\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It has been implemented in the buccal ganglia of the snail \i Aplysia\i0 , and Klopf's hypothesis claims it can be implemented in adaptive heterostats.  Joseph Wolpe's systematic desensitization is based on it, and aversive discriminative stimuli are not encouraged, because they cause the subject to escape the consequent, turning the process into a variable ratio or variable interval schedule.  Temporal difference learning is an application to AI of this technique which obeys the Premack principle.  FTP name this process where actions are reinforced or punished, used by Behaviorists.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul operant\ulnone  conditioning; or \ul instrument\ulnone al conditioning\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In its 4th substage, children develop signal meaning, though they still commit the "A not B" error.  Meltzoff showed that children exhibit deferred imitation by its end, and they like to drop objects on the floor to see a response in the tertiary circular reaction substage.  Contextually bound object permanence emerges in Laurent Piaget, but children do not manipulate symbolic representations.  Beginning with the reflex substage, FTP name this stage before preoperational in Piaget's theory of cognitive development, in which infants use their bodies to manipulate physical objects.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul sensorimotor\ulnone  stage\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar This work suggests that because of overdetermination, many elements must be fused in a process called condensation of the multidimensional content.  Describing a process that works in reverse of representation in going from images to thoughts, it reports the secondary revision step as the follow-up to displacement of latent content.  The death of the author's father Jacob led to the research for this book published at the turn of the millenium.  Describing analysis of manifest content, discharge of libido, and wish fulfillment associated with sleep, FTP name this 1899 Sigmund Freud work.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i Die \ul Traumdeutung\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Interpretation of Dreams\par
\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One group of participants in this experiment was supervised by the undergrad David Jaffe, who got the idea of the sunglasses from \i Cool Hand Luke\i0 .  Gordon Bower from Yale made the PI very disconcerted by asking him what the independent variable was, and Christina Maslach asked for it to end before it was supposed to.  Subjects walked blindfolded in the Yard, and an ex-cheerleader was hired to humor the parents.  When 819 asked to see a doctor John Wayne made them chant "prisoner 819 did a bad thing."  FTP name this experiment oversaw by Zimbardo, taking place in its namesake college.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Stanford\ulnone  prison experiment\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these psychological tests.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Having one fewer item than the Beck depression inventory, this self-administered depression scale is based on 1-4 responses to 20 questions.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Zung\ulnone  depression scale\par
(10)  Invented by Henry Murray, it consists of 20 pictures of people doing different things which the subject is asked to interpret.\par
\tab Answer: \ul T\ulnone hematic \ul A\ulnone pperception \ul T\ulnone est\par
(10)  567 true or false statements are used to interpret the personality of people older than 16 years of age in this rather sizable set of tests.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul M\ulnone innesota \ul M\ulnone ultiphasic \ul P\ulnone ersonality \ul I\ulnone nventory\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these perceptual illusions named for their discoverers.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Lateral inhibition explains this phenomenon in which two stripes, one light one dark, are seen at the edges of a region of continuous increase in brightness.  They are named for an Austrian physicist whose number relates velocity to sound velocity.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Mach\ulnone  bands\par
(10)  Its discovery supported the claim of its namesake discoverers that the unseen force of God impinges on perception.  Two equal-length parallel lines with arrows at the ends pointing in different directions are seen to be of different lengths.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Muller-Lyer\ulnone  illusion\par
(10)  If you are forced to listen to someone saying "ba" while looking at someone saying "ga" on a TV screen, then what you end up perceiving is "da."  Alternatively, a distorted speech signal is well-perceived as long as you look at its producer.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul McGurk\ulnone  effect\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these types of psychiatric therapies.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Famously applied to schizophrenics, this method assumes that personality development depends on the social environment, and hence on significant people in the invidual's life.  Name this social therapy developed by Henry Stack Sullivan.\par
\tab Answer: \ul interpersonal\ulnone  therapy\par
(10)  Described in \i Counseling and Psychotherapy\i0  and developed at Union Theological Seminary, this psychotherapeutic strategy pioneered by Carl Rogers focuses on giving unconditional positive regard so that individuals can actualize.\par
\tab Answer: \ul client-center\ulnone ed therapy\par
(10)  Respecting the search for meaning as the primary human motivation, this 3rd Viennese school of psychotherapy formulated by Victor Frankl employs techniques like paradoxical intention, dereflection, and orientation towards meaning.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul logo\ulnone therapy\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar After emigrating to the US, he worked at the Institute of Human Relations at Yale and studied Sioux Indian children at the Pine Ridge reserve in South Dakota.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this developmental psychologist, who published \i Childhood and Society\i0  while at Cal--though his wife edited much of it, developing an 8 stage crises model.\par
\tab Answer: Erik \ul Erikson\ulnone\par
(10)  This psychohistory by Erikson examines the titular Protestant reformer's identity crisis and claims he wasn't as anal as Freud might have suggested.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Young Man Luther\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Coming after initiative vs. guilt and before identity vs. confusion, this stage in Erikson's theory taking place at age 6 to 12 sees kids trying to complete basic tasks in an effort to achieve the former; otherwise, they fail and suffer the latter.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul industry\ulnone  vs. \ul inferiority\ulnone ; accept "competence vs. inferiority"\ul\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Freudian defense mechanisms.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The concentration of an idea or display of an action in excess that is opposite to that of the undesirable unconscious impulse, like loving your enemy.\par
\tab Answer: \ul reaction formation\ulnone\par
(10)  The chaneling of sexual or otherwise unacceptable drives into socially acceptable or artistic endeavors, like painting nude pictures of your mother.\par
\tab Answer: \ul sublimation\ulnone\par
(10)  Undesirable feelings in oneself is attributed to another person, like accusing your friend of betraying you when you've secretly betrayed her to the authorities.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul projection\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His posthumous papers are collected as \i The Farther Reaches of Human Nature\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this American psychologist who taught at Brooklyn and Brandeis, and wrote \i Motivation and Personality\i0  and \i Toward a Psychology of Being\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Abraham \ul Maslow\ulnone\par
(10)  According to Maslow, only after safety, belonging, and esteem needs have been met can individuals consciously strive to fulfill this highest psychological need.\par
\tab Answer: \ul self-actualization\ulnone\par
(10)  According to Maslow, self-actualized individuals are more likely to experience these, which include feelings of power and simultaneous weakness, as well as of limitless horizons opening up, changing the direction of their future behaviors.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul peak\ulnone  experiences\par
\par
5/5 economics\par
\par
In an Edgeworth box, points with this property lie along the contract curve, and every point in the Edgeworth box can thus be transfomed to a point along the contract curve.  Graphically, they correspond to points where the indifference curves of two individuals are tangent, as at a point of tangency, it is impossible to move along one of the indifference curves without moving to a lower indifference curve for the other individual.  These points represent, FTP what equilibrium condition where the utility of one person cannot be increased without decreasing the utility of another?\par
\tab Answer: \ul Pareto\ulnone  equilibrium or optimality or efficiency\par
\par
This phenomenon is typically divided into three classes, or "degrees."  In the first degree, or "perfect," the monopolist is able to turn all of the consumer surplus into profit.  The third degree is illustrated by examples such as region coding for DVDs, where a monopolist is able to segment a market into different locations or times.  The second degree is illustrated by wholesale stores, which can offer lower prices on goods in bulk.  FTP what is this practice, in which a monopolistic firm can increase profits by charging different prices to different consumers?\par
\tab Answer: \ul price discrimination\ulnone\par
\par
Okun's Law says that each percentage point of this quantity above its normal level will correspond to a loss of about two percentage points of GDP compared to optimal.  It is typically divided into 4 categories: frictional, which tends to be voluntary, cyclical, which happens when aggregate demand is insufficient, technological, and structural, which tend to be permanent and can result in the shifting of the Phillips curve to the left.  FTP what is this quantity, which in Marxian thought is required to keep wages down, plotted in a Phillips curve against inflation?\par
\tab Answer: \ul unemployment\ulnone\par
\par
The converse of this law is sometimes called Keynes' Law.  It works best when money is not considered or viewed as a purely transactional need, as hoarding or otherwise accumulating money will generally cause this law to fail.  Since products are paid for with products, a surplus can occur only when too many of one kind of product and too little of another kind are produced.  FTP what is this economic law, one of the tenets of laissez-faire economics, summarized as "supply creates its own demand?"\par
\tab Answer: \ul Say\ulnone 's law\par
\par
After launching the Mont Pelerin Society, he turned to principles of rules of law in \i The Constitution of Liberty \i0 and the 1970's trilogy \i Law, Legislation, and Liberty\i0 .  Denounced by Clement Atlee, he disseminated the work of Ludwig von Mises as professor of the London School of Economics before moving to the University of Chicago.  Archrival of John Maynard Keynes, he believed that Communism and Nazism both arose from the tempting economic solution of government control.  FTP name this co-winner of the 1974 Nobel prize in economics who wrote \i The Road to Serfdom\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Friedrich August von \ul Hayek\ulnone\par
\par
Answer these things about duopoly.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In a duopolistic situation, profits are maximized when the firms act as one of these, which is an inherently unstable solution.\par
\tab Answer: \ul cartel\ulnone\par
(10)  The first successful model of the duopoly problem is this equilibrium, in which each firm chooses its own output assuming that its decisions do not affect the other.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Cournot\ulnone  equilibrium or solution or model\par
(10)  In this duopoly model, one firm acts as a "leader," as it has knowledge of how the other firm will act and uses it in setting its output.  This results in higher profits for the leaders but less for the followers.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Stackelberg\ulnone  model or equilibrium or solution\par
\par
Identify these things about an individual's demand curves.  FTPE.\par
(10)  A single curve of demand against price is typically plotted assuming income is constant, resulting in this type of demand curve.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Marshall\ulnone ian demand curve\par
(10)  When plotted assuming constant utility rather than constant income, the result is this kind of demand curve named for a Nobel winner who wrote \i Value and Capital\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \ul Hicks\ulnone ian or \ul compensated\ulnone  demand curve\par
(10)  Because the Hicksian demand curve eliminates income effects from the demand curve, it reflects only this effect on the quantity demanded.\par
\tab Answer: \ul substitution\ulnone  effect\par
\par
Answer these things about Simon Kuznets.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Kuznets systematized measurement of this quantity, the value of all goods and services produced in an economy, including imports, but excluding exports.\par
\tab Answer: \ul G\ulnone ross \ul N\ulnone ational \ul P\ulnone roduct; or \ul national income\ulnone\par
(10)  One type of these, which lasts for 15 to 25 years, is named for Kuznets.\par
\tab Answer: \ul business cycle\ulnone s\par
(10)  Kuznets' eponymous curve looks much like the Laffer curve but has per capita GDP on the horizontal axis and this quantity on the vertical axis.\par
\tab Answer: income or economic \ul inequality\ulnone\par
\par
Identify these ways the Federal Reserve can control the economy.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The most common way the Fed exerts influence over the economy is by buying and selling securities, which is known as these.\par
\tab Answer: \ul open-market operation\ulnone s\par
(10)  The Fed can directly affect this interest rate, the rate member banks pay to borrow from the Fed.\par
\tab Answer: \ul discount\ulnone  rate; do not accept "prime rate" or any other rate\par
(10)  A 3rd weapon in the Fed's arsenal, though one almost never used, is the ability to change this value, which determines the multiplier effect for the money supply.\par
\tab Answer: \ul reserve ratio\ulnone\par
\par
It examined the long-range distribution of wealth among landlords, workers, and capitalists, and noted that profit varied inversely with wage.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Putting forth the labor theory of value, the increase of rent with population, and the theory of comparative advantage, name this 1817 work with a title similar to that of an 1820 work by Thomas Malthus and an 1848 work by John Stuart Mill.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Name the British economist who wrote \i Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\i0 , also famous for an Iron Law of Wages.\par
\tab Answer: David \ul Ricardo\ulnone\par
(10)  In an 1815 essay, Ricardo argued that tariffs on grain imports increased rent and decreased profit, and showed the benefits of repealing this British legislation.\par
\tab Answer: \ul corn law\ulnone s\par
\par
4/4 anthropology\par
\par
Its highest peak is Silisili, and its islands of Ofu and Olosega are homes of Fofoa and Fa'apua'a.  Natives here are governed by the \i matai\i0 , and although only unmarried women are allowed to become the \i taupou\i0 , one exception was made, as pointed out by Orans and Freeman, who found that English communication was prevalent in this Christianized part of the world.  Children here are cared for by many nonparental surrogates and girls delay marriage and engage in casual premarital sex.  Containing the islands Savai'i and Upolu, FTP name this nation where Margaret Mead came of age.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Samoa\ulnone\par
\par
Based on N. S. Trubetzkoy's focus on the unconscious, it utilizes distinctive feature analysis to uncover metacomponents associated with mental pairings of opposites.  Neglecting historical processes, it postulates 4 universal relationships of kinship, and derives from Roman Jakobson's linguistic theory.  Cultural patterns are inferred from mental relations in, FTP this anthropological theory espoused in \i The Savage Mind\i0  that was inspired by Sao Paulo, Derrida, and Saussure, led by Claude Levi-Strauss.\par
\tab Answer: \ul structuralism\ulnone ; or \ul structural\ulnone  anthropology\par
\par
Ludwig Wittgenstein objected that this work fails to substantiate spontaneity and pointed out the family resemblances among games and rituals.  It moves from chapters on "Dianus and Diana" to "Tabooed Words" and an abridged appendix about Christian theology.  Rene Girard based his theory of mimesis on this book, which concludes with a "Farewell to Nemi," the location of the sacred grove depicted in a painting by Turner.  Comparing scientific, religious, and magical forms of thought, FTP name this work of cultural anthropology by James Frazer named for a tree branch in the \i Aeneid\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Golden Bough\par
\ulnone\i0\par
They inhabited the earth during the times of \i Paranthropus boisei\i0 , which became extinct, whereas they gave rise to \i ergaster\i0 .  Named by Tobias and Napier, they were discovered at Kooba Fora and Olduvai Gorge, and had cranial volumes of about 700 cc.  Debate about these bipedally moving species suggests that \i rudolfensis\i0 , and not them, evolved into the later \i Homo erectus\i0 .  Descended from \i Australopithecines\i0 , FTP name this hominine found along side tool deposits, the 1st \i Homo\i0  species, called handy man.\par
\tab Answer: \i Homo \ul habilis\ulnone\i0 ; prompt on "handy man" before it is mentioned\par
\par
American anthropologists.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Adopted by the Seneca Iroquois, he examined Indian kinship terms in \i Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family\i0 .  His cultural evolution theory driven by advances in food production as put forth in \i Ancient Society\i0  influenced Marxists.\par
\tab Answer: Lewis Henry \ul Morgan\ulnone\par
(10)  His \i The Mind of Primitive Man\i0  was burned by Nazis and cited by those opposed to immigration restrictions for its commitment that all peoples have the capacity to develop cultural forms.  He also taught Benedict and Mead while at Columbia.\par
\tab Answer: Franz \ul Boas\ulnone\par
(10)  Studying under Boas was this founder of the anthropology department at Cal.  He studied decorative symbols of Arapaho Indians, wrote \i Anthropology\i0  and \i Configurations of Culture Growth\i0 , and did work in Mexico and Peru, advocating patterning and groups.\par
\tab Answer: Alfred Louis \ul Kroeber\par
\ulnone\par
A reaction to cognitive and reductionist approaches, it rejects experimental analysis for elucidation of meanings, seeing society as a collection of semantics.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this movement of contemporary psychology led by Harold Schneider, Victor Turner, and Clifford Geertz that emphasizes conceptual systems in communication and action, also known as interpretive anthropology.\par
\tab Answer: \ul symbolic\ulnone  anthropology\par
(10)  An "Analysis of Sacred Symbols" and "Notes on the Balinese Cockfight" are found in this 1973 Clifford Geertz book that applies "thick description" to social action.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Interpretation of Cultures\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Victor Turner studied the pragmatics of symbols in the liminal period of the Ndembu boys' circumcision rituals, a type of these ceremonies used to mark transition from one phase of life to another, a term 1st used by Arnold van Gennep.\par
\tab Answer: \ul rite\ulnone s of \ul passage\ulnone\par
\par
Name these archaeologists.  FTPE.\par
(10)  An expert in stone tools, she studied Clactonians in Essex, discovered \i Zinjanthropus\i0  (\i Australopithecus boisei\i0 ) at Olduvai, and worked at Laetoli, Tanzania.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Mary Leakey\ulnone\par
(10)  Assisting Flinders Petrie in unearthing Tall al Amarinah, he served as antique inspector in Egypt, excavated the tombs of Thutmos IV and Queen Hatshepsut, and, with George Herbert, earl of Carnarvon, discovered the intact tomb of Tutankhamun.\par
\tab Answer: Howard \ul Carter\par
\ulnone (10)  He opposed Kenyan leader Daniel arap Moi.  He also found \i Australopithecus robustus\i0 , Nariokotome boy, and the jaw of a Sivapithecus at Lake Turkana.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Richard Leakey\ulnone\par
\par
Give the common names of these archaeological discoveries.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Following his discoveries at Laetoli, Donald Johanson dug up a 40% complete skeleton of \i Australopithecus afarensis\i0  at Hadar commonly known by this female name.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Lucy\ulnone\par
(10)  Originally classified as \i Sinanthropus\i0 , this fossil found at the Zhoukoudian cave near its namesake city by Davidson Black was a \i Homo erectus\i0  wielding an Acheulian ax.  It was unsuccessfully smuggled out of China, leaving only a cast.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Peking\ulnone  man\par
(10)  Sometimes named for a cave near Correze, France, this 1st complete Neandertal skeleton was given to Marcellin Boule after being cleared from the Mousterian layer.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Old\ulnone  man; or La \ul Chapelle-aux-Saints\ulnone\par
\par
4/4 sociology\par
\par
This school emphasized the latent consequences of manifest intents, and utilizes trait-diffusion analysis.  Adaptation, goal attainment, integration, and pattern maintenance are requirements for social systems set forth by its modern developer, who saw the eponymous concept as the link between stable categories.  Durkheim and Spencer are responsible for the classical moralist view, which drew an analogy with parts of the body.  FTP name this school of sociology associated with Talcott Parsons which theorized that all institutions of society serve a purpose in its survival.\par
\tab Answer: \ul function\ulnone alism\par
\par
It characterizes periods like industrialization, in which common values are no longer accepted and new values have not yet developed.  Caused by emphasis on ends rather than means, it provokes responses ranging from conformity, innovation, ritualism, retreatism, rebellion, to delinquency and crime.  Robert K. Merton noticed it in people who lack means to achieve their goals; Emile Durkheim named a type of suicide after this breakdown of social standards.  FTP give this term meaning "normlessness."\par
\tab Answer: \ul anomie\ulnone\par
\par
Paul Harrison called it "hell" in \i Inside the Third World\i0 .  William Whyte examined the "street people" in its capitalist structure, and Herbert Gans divided its inhabitants into ethnic villagers and cosmopolites.  Subject of documentaries by Stanley Milgram, it is described using concentric zone, multiple nuclei, and sector models, and Louis Wirth claimed its heterogeneity produces 2ndary relations while Georg Simmel examined its urbanizing effect.  Its history and culture examined by Lewis Mumford, FTP name this unit of urban area where many people live and work, usually larger than a town.\par
\tab Answer: the \ul city\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Patterson and Elliott examined its inversion in \i Redbook\i0  magazine advertisements, and Sheri Kathleen Cole described its prevalence in music videos in the essay "I Am the Eye, You Are My Victim."  E. Ann Kaplan asks if it really is what it is, and wonders if the woman can also become the controller.  Its originator adapted Jacques Lacan's theory of castration anxiety to the study of \i Rear Window\i0  and explained it in "Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema."  FTP name this concept in feminist theory coined by Laura Mulvey describing cinema's tendency to take the man's point of view.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul male gaze\par
\ulnone\par
He maintained that the method of inquiry evolved from theological to metaphysical to positive stages, and believed that science developed from math to physics to biology, and finally to his own favorite topic which he founded, sociology.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this author of \i Course of Positive Philosophy\i0  who systemitized sociology.\par
\tab Answer: Auguste \ul Comte\ulnone\par
(10)  Comte's ideas on a secular religion of scientific methods was inspired by this Christian socialist who saw the cause of the poor as a religion in \i New Christianity\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Henri de \ul Saint-Simon\ulnone\par
(10)  He traced Comte's historical analysis in his \i Masters of Sociological Thought\i0 .  Name this author of \i Functions of Social Conflict\i0  who, unlike fellow conflict sociologist Ralf Dahrendorf, assigns a positive influence to imagined antagonism.\par
\tab Answer: Lewis \ul Coser\ulnone\par
\par
It emphasizes people's subjective views of the world, and their definitions of the situations in their own linguistic terms and representational power.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this microsociological theory associated with Charles H. Cooley, William I. Thomas, and American pragmatists, popularized and coined by Herbert Blumer, which describes social communication based on individual representations.\par
\tab Answer: \ul symbolic interaction\ulnone ism\par
(10)  Blumer based symbolic interactionism on the works of this sociologist, his mentor, whose posthumously collected works include \i Mind, Self, and Society\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: George Herbert \ul Mead\ulnone\par
(10)  A seminal work on symbolic interactions is this Erving Goffman analysis of the performance undertaken by individuals as they establish their roles in social groups.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Presentation of Self in Everyday Life\ulnone\i0\par
\par
He believed that only a disciplined labor regiment allows one to avoid the laziness and temptation that lead to emotional crises, which he suffered later in life as part of his nervous collapse, after which he produced his best work.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this German sociologist who developed comparative methods and rationality of means and ends, and studied the German stock market and bureaucracy.\par
\tab Answer: Max \ul Weber\ulnone\par
(10)  The thesis of this work by Weber was defended in his journal the \i Archiv\i0 .  It states that Calvinists accumulated property to demonstrate their worldly calling.\par
\tab Answer: \i Die \ul protestantische Ethik und der Gest des Kapitalismus\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Protestant Ethic\ulnone  and the \ul Spirit of Capitalism\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The protestant ethic is an example of this mental construct accentuating certain aspects of reality by oversimplification, a concept developed by Weber.\par
\tab Answer: \ul ideal type\par
\ulnone\par
Identify these terms from the study of ethnic groups.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This is the categorical misrepresentation of all members of a specific ethnic group as being identical to each other, ignoring their differing attributes.\par
\tab Answer: \ul stereotype\ulnone\par
(10)  Divided into cultural, structural, and marital forms, this is the process by which ethnic groups become incorporated into a majority social system, losing some of their individual identities in the process in the melting pot.\par
\tab Answer: \ul assimilation\ulnone\par
(10)  This is the pattern of excluding foreigners from a nationalist country, or just plain old hatred of anything foreign.\par
\tab Answer: \ul xenophobia\ulnone\par
\par
3/3 linguistics\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The only member of both the class of continuants and the class of nonsonorants, this manner of articulation includes the bilabial "phi" and "beta" IPA designations, and the velar "x" and "gamma."  The "zha" in "azure," the "ha" in "happy," the "the" in "teeth" are all examples of this diverse set of sounds that includes the alveopalatal "sha," the labiodental "fa" and "va," and the alveolar "sa" and "za."  FTP name this type of consonant produced with a continuous airflow through the mouth.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul fricative\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It explains the ambiguity in sentences like "flying airplanes can be dangerous."  In sign language, it is manifest as topicalization, and "do" and "there" support types of this take place for existential sentences and yes-no questions.  Subject-auxiliary inversion, exchange of subject and object in passivization, removing a preposition by dative-movement, and inverting a question by WH-movement are examples of this process that converts a deep structure into a surface structure.  FTP name this process, part of the generative grammar analyzed by Noam Chomsky that converts related sentences.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul transformation\ulnone ; prompt on "generative grammar" before it is mentioned\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His recollections of love are found in \i A Lover's Discourse\i0 , \i Incidents\i0 , and the memoir \i Camera Lucida\i0 .  He introduced intertextuality and the open text in "From Work to Text" and analyzed "Sarrasine" by Honore de Balzac line by line in \i S/Z\i0 .  \i The Fashion System\i0  and \i The Eiffel Tower\i0  analyzed popular culture, whose hidden assumptions are dealt with in \i Mythologies\i0 .  FTP name this author of the essay "The Death of the Author," a linguist and critic best known for \i Writing Degree Zero\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Roland \ul Barthes\ulnone\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about prosodic suprasegmental features of speech sounds.  FTPE.\par
(10)  A long vowel is known by this technical term.  It is indicated by a colon that follows it.  In English they follow vowels that occur before voiced obstruents in the same syllable.\par
\tab Answer: \ul geminate\ulnone  vowels\par
(10)  Syllables with this property are louder, slightly higher in pitch, and longer in duration.  In English, they can distinguish between "pre-SENT" and "PRE-sent."\par
\tab Answer: \ul stress\ulnone ed syllable\par
(10)  A language is of this type when differences in word meanings are signaled by differences in pitch.  English is not one of these languages.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul tone\ulnone  languages\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Syntactic categories.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Words such as "the" for nouns, "never" for verbs, and "almost" for adjectives are given this name, refering to a word in a phrase that helps to make more precise the meaning of the head.\par
\tab Answer: \ul specifier\ulnone\par
(10)  Attached to the right of the head in English is this type of phrase that provide information about entities and locations whose existence is implied by the meaning of the head, e.g. the direct object of a verb.\par
\tab Answer: \ul complement\ulnone\par
(10)  Words such as "that," "if," and "whether" that begin a complement clause within a matrix clause are known as by this.  It usually begins an embedded sentence.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul complementizer\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these historical linguists.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Exiled for sympathy for American independence, this British jurist was first to translate \i Shakuntala\i0 .  At Calcutta, he saw that Sanskrit bore a strong affinity to Greek and Latin and postulated the ancestral Indo-European language.\par
\tab Answer: Sir William \ul Jones\ulnone\par
(10)  His \i German Grammar\i0  specified the relationship among Sanskrit, Latin, and the Germanic languages in which voiced aspirates became unaspirated, voiced stops became voiceless, and voiceless stops became spirants, known as his eponomous law.\par
\tab Answer: Jacob \ul Grimm\ulnone\par
(10)  This Danish philologist inspired Jacob Grimm by bringing Lithuanian and Armenian into the relationships among Sanskrit, Latin, Greek, Persian, and Germanic.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Rasmus Christian \ul Rask\par
\ulnone\par
}
 