{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 This Tournament Goes to Eleven 8, 2006.\par
British literature packet by UCLA.\par
"To Follow Knowledge Like a Sinking Star."\par
Questions by Ray Luo.\par
\par
21/21 total\par
7/7 novels novelists\par
7/7 drama dramatists\par
7/7 poetry poets\par
\par
TOSSUPS.\par
\par
01.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He has variable knowledge in botany, though none in practical gardening, and is quite limited in literature, philosophy, and astronomy.  According to a "Book of Life," he could infer the possibility of an Atlantic or Niagara from a drop of water.  He once visited Laura Lyons, who reveals a letter that sent the victim to the scene of the crime, Grimpen Mire.  Gregson and Lestrade got credit for his solving of the crime committed by Jefferson Hope, who had scribbled the word "RACHE" in blood in \i A Study in Scarlet\i0 .  FTP name this enemy of Dr. Moriarty, the companion of "my dear Watson."\par
\pard\tab Answer: Sherlock \ul Holmes\par
\ulnone\par
02.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1 One character from this play notes that "were man but constant, he were perfect, that one error fills him with faults, makes him run through all the sins," while asking for forgiveness eventually granted.  Sir Eglamour is chased away by outlaws while escorting the daughter of the Duke of Milan, who sends a portrait to her suitor so that he may make love to her shadow.  Julia disguised as Sebastian witnesses her lover singing a love song to Silvia, who is eventually reuinited in the forest with Valentine.  FTP name this Shakespeare play in which Proteus betrays Valentine.\par
\pard\f0\tab Answer: \i The \ul Two Gentlemen of Verona\par
\ulnone\i0\par
03.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The poet would like to be the comrade of its wanderings over Heaven as in his boyhood.  This "trumpet of a prophecy" will scatter the poet's "words among mankind."  It is hoped that the tumult of its mighty harmonies would drive his "dead thoughts over the universe like withered leaves to quicken a new birth."  This wild spirit, moving everywhere, is both "destroyer and preserver."  An impetuous spirit, FTP name this "azure sister of the Spring" and "breath of Autumn's being," the subject of an ode by Percy Shelley.\par
\tab Answer: "Ode to the \ul West Wind\ulnone "\par
\par
04.\par
His stories appeared in \i Introduction 2\i0 , while his \i Undiscovered Country\i0  adapted a play by Schnitzler.  His father was a physician in Singapore, but he adapted the name of his stepfather, a British officer.  His plays include \i Night and Day\i0 , \i Hapgood\i0 , and \i A Walk on the Water\i0 , which was 1st televised, then renamed \i Enter a Free Man\i0 .  His most famous play features a Player who died "a thousand casual deaths" because it is expected by the audience, before the finishing of two titular characters.  FTP name this playwright of \i Jumpers\i0 , \i Travesties\i0 , and \i Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Tom \ul Stoppard\par
\ulnone\par
05.\par
A "turbulent welter of cloud" announced the end of the eighteenth and the beginning of the nineteenth century at the end of ch 4.  In search of adventure in nobleman's clothing, its heroine met Nell and her friends Prue, Kitty, and Rose, defying Mr. T. R.'s proof that women are incapable of affection in the company of their own sex.  She was a lord, an ambassador, a patron, a writer in turn, while her sex changed more frequently than those who have worn only one set of clothing can conceive.  FTP name this fictional biography of Victoria Sackville-West, by Virginia Woolf.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Orlando\par
\ulnone\i0\par
06.\par
Poem XII in this collection notes that "lovers lying two and two ask not whom they sleep beside."  "Reveille" tells a kid to wake up, while "Hughley Steeple" speaks of graves of "the slayers of themselves."  Beginning with "1887" and "Loveliest of Trees, the Cherry Now," its penultimate poem inspired the alternative title of \i The Poems of Terence Hearsay\i0 .  FTP name this collection containing "On Wenlock Edge," "To an Athlete Dying Young," and "Terence, This Is Stupid Stuff," by A. E. Housman.\par
\tab Answer: \i A \ul Shropshire Lad\par
\ulnone\i0\par
07.\par
She notes that "men have no sense now but the worthless flower of beauty," and says that if she may "reprehend anything in this world it is the use of [her] oracular tongue."  Called "an arbitrary writer" by Sir Lucius, she claims that the late affair of her ward with an ensign has given her the "hydrostatics."  Wishing to press the "preposition" of Sir Anthony on her niece, she takes the name of Delia in relations with Lucius O'Trigger, and wants Lydia Languish to take Jack Absolute.  FTP name this woman from Richard Sheridan's \i The Rivals\i0  whose name means a wrong word substitution.\par
\tab Answer: Mrs. \ul Malaprop\par
\ulnone\par
08.\par
He wrote \i The Wrong Box\i0  and \i The Wrecker\i0  with stepson Lloyd Osbourne.  Studying law and engineering, he wrote about mining in \i The Silverado Squatters\i0 , and about a canoe trip in \i An Inland Voyage\i0 .  One of his works contains characters like Redruth, Pew, and Dr. Livesey; his cure for tuberculosis was a stay at the Samoan island of Upolu.  Author of \i New Arabian Nights\i0  and \i A Children's Garden of Verses\i0 , FTP name this novelist who penned \i Prince Otto\i0 , \i The Black Arrow\i0 , \i Treasure Island\i0 , and \i Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Robert Louis \ul Stevenson\par
\ulnone\par
09.\par
The penultimate stanza of this poem ends with the remark that "the worse, and worst times still succeed the former."  The higher the sun gets, "the sooner will his race be run, and nearer he's to setting," hence "that age is best which is the first, when youth and blood are warmer."  Ending with the observation that "having lost but once your prime, you may forever tarry," it calls to the "flower that smiles today" that will be dying tomorrow.  FTP name this peom asking the titular subjects to "gather ye rosebuds while ye may," by Robert Herrick.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time\ulnone "\par
\par
10.\par
One character exclaims that she "\f1 stood on the rock [she] thought eternal" until a "stroke of [the] pen in a cheque book" made her stood alone with an empty heaven.  Another character constantly quotes Euripides, saying that "one man's meat is another man's poison morally as well as physically."  After hitting Jenny and Rummy, Bill Walker wrestles with \f0 Todger Fairmile, and is shown that there \i is\i0  such a thing as a soul.  Charles Lomax is favored by Lady Britomart, but Adolphus Cusins is chosen to be the heir because he is a foundling.  FTP name this play about Andrew Undershaft's idealistic titular daughter, a Salvation army officer created by Bernard Shaw.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Major Barbara\par
\ulnone\i0\par
11.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar She raised her only surviving child Florence with the scant income from novels like \i The Fortunes of Perkin Warbeck\i0  and \i Falkner\i0 .  She accounts for some famous journies in Geneva in \i History of a Six Weeks' Tour\i0 , and gave a fictionalized autobiography in \i Lodore\i0 .  Lionel Verney is the only one that remains after a plague in her \i The Last Man\i0 , but her best known work contains the deaths of \f1 Justine Moritz, Henry Clerval, and Elizabeth Lavenza.  FTP name this author of the modern Prometheus, \i Frankenstein\i0 .\f0\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Mary\ulnone  Wollstonecraft \ul Shelley\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 12.\par
One character in this play tells her lover that her husband is dead, but upon being rejected, joins with Vasques to seek revenge.  But Vasques turns Hippolita's poison scheme on herself, and her death at the wedding banquet leads Friar Bonaventura to caution the illicit lovers before leaving Parma.  Grimaldi and Soranzo are both after Florio's daughter, but her affections are for Giovanni, who later kills his sister and puts her heart on his sword because he cannot have her as a lover.  FTP name this play about Annabella's incestuous love for her brother, by John Ford.\par
\tab Answer: \i '\ul Tis Pity She's a Whore\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
13.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One of them notes that "I mourn with thee, and yet rejoice that thou shouldst sorrow so," in "The Penitent."  Another is the subject of a novel by Douglas A. Martin, and had an affair with Mrs. Robinson.  Yet another wrote of "strange power," "trust thou my constancy" in "The Visionary," and of "dungeon crypts" in "Prisoner, A Fragment," both part of her Gondal chronicles.  Rosalie's flirtation with Edward Weston and Gilbert Markham's love for Helen Graham are subjects of novels by one of them, while another wrote \i Shirley\i0  and \i The Professor\i0 , and told of Paul Emanuel and Lucy Snowe.  Including the authors of \i Villete\i0  and \i The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\i0 , FTP name this family of Branwell, Anne, Emily, and Charlotte, the latter of whom wrote \i Jane Eyre\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: the \ul Bronte\ulnone s\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 14.\par
Although accurate scholarship can unearth a psychopathic god, this poem states that all schoolchildren know that "those to whom evil is done do evil in return."  All the poet can do is to unfold "the romantic lie in the brain of the sensual man-in-the-street," telling him that "no one exists alone" and "we must love one another or die."  First published in \i Another Time\i0  along with "Musee des Beaux Arts," FTP name this poem reminiscing on "a low dishonest decade," a dated poem by W. H. Auden.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul September 1\ulnone , 1939"; prompt if only the year is given\par
\par
15.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He wrote three poems called "To Sleep," the first of which asks "do they belong to thee, these twinklings of oblivion?"  Carlyle noted that this man considered only one poet to be without fault, and that poet is himself.  \i An Evening Walk\i0  and \i Descriptive Sketches\i0  came after returning from France, where Annette Vallon bore him a daughter.  He notes in Westminster bridge that "earth has not anything to show more fair," and after marrying Mary Hutchinson, he wrote an autobiographical work with part of "The Recluse" discussing religion, industry, and education titled \i The Excursion\i0 .  Brother of insane Dorothy, FTP name this author of \i The Prelude\i0  and visitor of Tintern Abbey.\par
\pard\tab Answer: William \ul Wordsworth\par
\ulnone\par
16.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In the opening chapter of this novel, the author notes that there are readers "who find themselves ill at ease, unless they are let into the whole secret from first to last," and predicts that his book will be read no less than \i The Pilgrim's Progress\i0 .  The titular protagonist's aunt Dinah had no character, but his father Walter is the philosophical type.  Dedicated to Pitt, it recalls a groin injury suffered at Namur by Uncle Toby, who reconstructs the battle in miniature as a hobby-horse.  FTP name this novel containing blank pages for Widow Wadman, by Laurence Sterne.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The Life and Opinions of \ul Tristram Shandy\ulnone , Gentleman\par
\i0\par
17.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar "A gown made of the finest wool," "fair lined slippers for the cold," and "a belt of straw and ivy buds" are used as enticements to bring its subject to the "shallow rivers to whose falls melodious birds sing madrigals," and "sit upon the rocks."  The narrator "shall dance and sing for thy delight each May morning," "make thee a bed of roses," and provide "a kirtle embroidered all with leaves of myrtle."  Prompting a nymph's reply from Sir Walter Ralegh, FTP name this poem beginning with "come live with me and be my love," by Christopher Marlowe.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "The \ul Passionate Shepherd to His Love\ulnone "\par
\par
18.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The protagonist of this play loses control in a game of blind man's buff and tries to assault Lulu.  Overnight, he is cleaned up and dressed appropriately to be brought to Monty, while Petey urges him not to listen to the Irish guy and the Jewish guy.  At the suggestion of Nat Goldberg, Meg Bowles decides to present a drum to Stan, and he soon beats it incessantly as the curtain falls on act one.  McCann and Goldberg bully the ex-pianist boarder Stanley Webber in, FTP this Harold Pinter play or celebration.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The \ul Birthday Party\par
\ulnone\i0\par
19.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His \i Drums under the Window\i0  and \i Rose and Crown\i0  are part of his 6 volume autobiography that began with \i I Knock at the Door\i0 .  After his antiwar drama was rejected, he wrote \i Red Roses for Me\i0  and \i The Star Turns Red\i0  for English theatre, but \i The Purple Dust\i0  was staged in Ireland.  His trilogy of plays contained characters like Donal Davoren, Jack Clitheroe, and John Boyle.  FTP name this Irish dramatist who penned \i The Shadow of a Gunman\i0 , \i The Plough and the Stars\i0 , and \i Juno and the Paycock\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Sean \ul O'Casey\par
\ulnone\par
20.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The narrator urges us "to follow knowledge like a sinking star, beyond the utmost bound of human thought."  Though he is "not now that strength which in old days moved earth and heaven," he "cannot rest from travel," drinking "life to the lees."  An idle king matched with an aged wife, he lives "to rust unburnished, not to shine in use."  Ending with "One equal temper of heroic hearts, made weak by time and fate, but strong in will to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield," FTP name this Tennyson poem of old Odysseus.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Ulysses\ulnone "\par
\pard\par
21.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He told of "the progress of love" in a poem about a woman who'd "rather take you to her bed than let you see her dress her head," "Phillis."  His epitaph suggests a cathedral "where fierce indignation no longer tears the heart."  He claimed Whigs prolonged the war of the Spanish succession in \i The Conduct of the Allies\i0 , causing the dismissal of John Churchill.  He referred to Esther Vanhomrigh, daughter of a Dublin merchant, as Vanessa, and wrote a \i Journal to Stella\i0  to a student whose real name is also Esther.  FTP name this writer of \i A Tale of the Tub\i0  and \i Gulliver's Travels\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Jonathan \ul Swift\par
\ulnone\par
BONUSES.\par
\par
01.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Stories from \i Dubliners\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  Leo Dillon and the narrator were always reading about Indians.  Now, Leo fails to show up, so the narrator and Mahony skips Father Butler's school to play, and meet a wierdo who talks about Walter Scott, boys' sweethearts, and desires of the flesh.\par
\tab Answer: "An \ul Encounter\ulnone "\par
(10)  Polly Mooney sings a song about being a naughty girl.  She has an affair with Mr. Doran, and Mrs. Mooney presses for marriage, even as she worked at a bordello.\par
\tab Answer: "The \ul Boarding House\ulnone "\par
\pard (10)  Henchy bad mouths pig-eyed \f1 Tricky Dicky Tierney, for whom he's working the votes.  O'Connor and Henchy gives a boy a drink and listen to Hynes recite a poem about "The Death of Parnell," causing Crofton to call it a fine piece of writing.\f0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tab Answer: "\ul Ivy Day in the Committee Room\ulnone "\par
\pard\par
02.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The poet vows "away! away! for I will fly to thee, not charioted by Bacchus and his pards, but on the viewless wings of Poesy."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this poem in which the word "forlorn" is like a bell "to toll me back from thee to my sole self," which begins "my heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains."\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Ode to a Nightingale\ulnone "\par
(10)  Name the poet who penned "Ode to a Nightingale," "Lamia," and "Isabella."\par
\tab Answer: John \ul Keats\ulnone\par
(10)  Keats claims that "the voice I hear this passing night was heard in ancient days by emperor and clown," and suggests it was the same song "that found a path through the sad heart" of this Biblical figure when she "sick for home," "stood in tears amid the alien corn" to gain a husband in Boaz.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Ruth\ulnone\par
\pard\par
03.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In this Oscar Wilde play, Algernon Moncrieff visits the imaginary invalid Bunbury whenever he needs to go to the country, a process he calls Bunburying.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Importance of Being Earnest\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  In Shakespeare's \i The Merry Wives of Windsor\i0 , Bardolph calls this man Banbury cheese, while Nym yells "slice, I say! pauca, pauca, slice!" to this old fat knight.\par
\tab Answer: Sir John \ul Falstaff\ulnone\par
(10)  He painted playwrights like John Burgoyne and David Garrick, and depicted a tripod altar and the three Graces in \i Lady Sarah Bunbury Sacrificing to the Graces\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Sir Joshua \ul Reynolds\ulnone\par
\pard\par
04.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Fowler is about to be thrown off it.  Crackenthorpe is the rector here, while Tookey is the deputy.  Snell is a landlord, but Squire Cass is in charge of the land.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this village whose weaver adopts Molly Farren's daughter with Godfrey Cass, a girl he calls Eppie who refuses to leave her adopted father for her true one.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Raveloe\ulnone\par
(10)  Give the full name of the weaver of Raveloe in the titular George Eliot novel.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Silas Marner\ulnone\par
(10)  Silas Marner only talks to this woman who teaches him how to raise a child, the wife of Ben and mother of Aaron, who finally marries Eppie.  \par
\tab Answer: \ul Dolly Winthrop\ulnone ; either name ok\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 05.\par
It affirms that "after the first death, there is no other," while the poet claims he "shall not murder the mankind of her going with a grave truth."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this poem about "the grains beyond age, the dark veins of her mother, secret by the unmourning water of the riding Thames," during a WWII firebombing.\par
\tab Answer: "A \ul Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London\ulnone "\par
(10)  Name the Welsh author of "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London, "And Death Shall Have No Dominion," "Fern Hill," and \i Under Milk Wood\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Dylan Marlais \ul Thomas\ulnone\par
(10)  This Thomas poem describes "good men, the last wave by, crying how bright their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay" with word that "forked no lightning."\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night\ulnone "\par
\par
06.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He argues that "\f1 every dram of woman's flesh is false, if she be," in defending his queen Hermione, and later leaves baby Perdita to the "powerful spirit instruct[ing] the kites and ravens" in Bohemia before battling a bear.  \f0 FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this virtuous Shakespearean character who exits, pursued by a bear.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Antigonus\ulnone\par
(10)  Antigonus is an unfortunate victim in this play about Leontes, king of Sicilia, and his jealousy over affections of his wife, who comes back to life as a statue.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Winter's Tale\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This king of Bohemia is informed by Camillo to escape from Leontes.  He later finds his son Florizel courting Perdita, who turns out to be Leontes' lost daughter.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Polixenes\ulnone\par
\par
07.\ul\par
\ulnone Name these British poets.  FTPE.\par
(10)  He noted that "we forget cruelty and past betrayal, heedless of where the next bright bolt may fall" in the poem "The White Goddess," and also wrote "To Juan at the Winter Solstice," poems found in \i Fairies and Fusiliers\i0 , and the novel \i I, Claudius\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Robert \ul Graves\ulnone\par
(10)  He wrote mysteries like \i The Worm of Death\i0  under the name Nicholas Blake, but is better known for poem collections like \i Overture to Death\i0 , \i The Magnetic Mountain\i0 , and \i The Poetic Image\i0 .  He served the information ministry and was Poet Laureate in 1968.\par
\tab Answer: Cecil \ul Day Lewis\ulnone\par
(10)  He wrote of a war survivor buried "hugger-mugger anyhow inside [his] shirt" in "Walt," and also composed "Examination at the Womb-Door" and poems collected in \i The Hawk in the Rain\i0 , \i Wodwo\i0 , \i Crow\i0 , and \i Moortown\i0 .  He also edited \i Birthday Letters\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Ted \ul Hughes\ulnone\par
\pard\par
08.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His plays include \i The Tender Husband\i0  and \i The Conscious Lover\i0 , as well as the less successful \i The Funeral\i0  and \i The Lying Lover\i0 , both sentimental comedies.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this dramatist who then took up the pen as Isaac Bickerstaff for the essays found in \i The Tatler\i0 , a joint work with Joseph Addison.\par
\tab Answer: Richard \ul Steele\ulnone\par
(10)  Will Honeycomb and Andrew Freeport were members of a club of observers in this successor to \i The Tatler\i0 , which included Addison's papers on \i Paradise Lost\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Spectator\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  In his "opinion of true wisdom," he states that he knows "no evil under the sun as great as the abuse of the understanding."  Name this country squire from \i The Spectator\i0  served by Will Wimble who talks about love, manners, and gypsies.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Roger\ulnone  de \ul Coverley\ulnone ; accept either\par
\pard\par
09.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Novels by Charles Dickens.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Reared by blacksmith Joe Gargery and Biddy, Philip Pirrip is heir to ex-convict Abel Magwitch, father of Estella, whose husband Bentley Drummle dies.  Pip's sister is murdered by Dolge Orlick and Miss Havisham brought up Estella to hate men.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Great Expectations\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Left a fortune if he'd marry Bella Wilfer, the titular John Harmon returns with the name John Rokesmith to work as secretary to Boffin, who turns over the money.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Our Mutual Friend\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  When the title orphan disappears, Uncle Jasper accuses Neville Landless, fellow suitor to Rosa Bud, of murder.  Datchery arrives to frustrate Jasper, but we never figure out who's who in this unfinished novel.\par
\tab Answer: \i The Mystery of \ul Edwin Drood\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
10.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One of his title characters exclaims "moutains and hills, come, come and fall on me, and hide me from the heavy wrath of God!" as his soul is claimed by Lucifer.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this playwright arrested on charges of atheism, who died after a dispute over a tavern bill, notable for works like \i Edward II\i0  and \i Dr. Faustus\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Christopher \ul Marlowe\ulnone\par
(10)  In this Marlowe play, Cosroe rises against Mycetes, king of Persia, after he suggests that Menaphon be kept near Babylon to prevent against the titular Scythian conqueror.  He later mourns Zenocrate's death and kills his own son Calyphas.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Tamburlaine the Great\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The titular father of Abigail, Barabas, is made governor after the Turks enter the city, but he later falls into a hot cauldron while setting a trap for the Turks.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Jew of Malta\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 11.\par
It refers to a "cup of kindness," the "morning sun," and a "right gud-wellie waught, and was put in a collection of "original Scottish airs" by George Thompson.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this poem which notes that "surely ye'll be your pint-stoup" on this holiday, and asks "should auld acquaintance be forgot and never brought to mind?"\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Auld Lang Syne\ulnone "\par
(10)  Name the Scottish poet who wrote "Tam O'Shanter," "The Jolly Beggars" cantata, "The Banks O'Doon," and much of the lyrics to the song "Auld Lang Syne."\par
\tab Answer: Robert \ul Burns\ulnone\par
(10)  Claiming that "I will love thee still, my dear, while the sands o'life shall run," this Burns poem compares "my luve" to the that which is "newly sprung in June."\par
\tab Answer: "A \ul Red, Red Rose\ulnone "\par
\pard\par
12.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these Jacobean playwrights from descriptions of one of their works.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Lodovico, Francisco, and Gasparo avenge the death of Isabella, wife of the duke of Brachiano, by poisoning him and killing Vittoria Corombona, who was earlier thrown into a whorehouse by Cardinal Monticelso, in his revenge tragedy \i The White Devil\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: John \ul Webster\ulnone\par
(10)  Lady Allworth's stepson Tom marries Margaret, and Frank Wellborn overcomes his miserly uncle Sir Giles Overreach in this man's play \i A New Way to Pay Old Debts\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Philip \ul Massinger\ulnone\par
(10)  Rafe plays the part of the Grocer Errant in a play, and has the titular emblem on his shield, while Jasper marries Luce after scaring her rich father by feigning to be his own ghost in his primarily solo effort \i The Knight of the Burning Pestle\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Francis \ul Beaumont\ulnone\par
\pard\par
13.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Henrietta Musgrove is engaged to the curate Charles Hayter, but entertains, along with her sister Louisa, the dashing Captain Wentworth, who returned from war.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this novel that begins with the letting of Kellynch hall to Admiral Croft, and contains the romance of Louisa and Captain Benwick, and Mrs. Clay and Sir Walter.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Persuasion\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Name the author of \i Persuasion\i0 , who also wrote \i Emma\i0  and \i Sense and Sensibility\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Jane \ul Austen\ulnone\par
(10)  She was talked out of marrying Wentworth by Lady Russell 8 years ago, now this middle daughter of Sir Walter decides to trust her own instincts.  She cares for Louisa after her accident when she stayed at the Harville's, and relieves Mrs. Smith.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Anne Elliot\ulnone ; accept either name\par
\pard\par
14.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Works by Samuel Beckett.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In an attempt to "separate the grain from the husks" on the "awful occasion" of his birthday, the titular character peels a banana to hook out of his mouth, sounds the word "spool," and plays some recordings from his more youthful days.\par
\tab Answer: \i La \ul derniere bande\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Krapp's Last Tape\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The blind Hamm can't stand, and his servant Clov can't sit, and keeps reporting "zero."  Nell and Nagg, Hamm's parents, are living inside trashcans in this play.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Fin de partie\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Endgame\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  A voice divorced from body conjures up the images of a worm and a trunk and a head stuck in a jar in this concluding novel following \i Molloy\i0  and \i Malone Dies\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i L'\ul innommable\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Unnamable\par
\ulnone\i0\par
15.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Novels by William Makepeace Thackeray.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The titular scoundrel, whose 1st name is Redmond, goes from love affair to love affair until his intrigues with Lady Honoria end up putting him in Fleet prison.\par
\tab Answer: \i The Memoirs of \ul Barry Lyndon\ulnone , Esquire, Written by Himself\i0\par
(10)  The titular hero, whose first name is Arthur, becomes a writer and editor for \i Pall Mall Gazette\i0 , and marries Laura Bell, with whom he grew up together.\par
\tab Answer: \i The History of \ul Pendennis\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The titular heir to the Castlewood estate is brought up as the illegitimate son of Thomas.  When Beatrix runs away to the Old Pretender James Edward, the protagonist marries her mother Rachel of Castlewood and takes off for America.\par
\tab Answer: \i The History of \ul Henry Esmond\ulnone , Esquire\i0\par
\pard\par
16.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these characters from \i The Faerie Queene\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  Duessa tricks Sir Guyon into fighting this knight by insisting that he had violated a virgin.  Representing Holiness, name this knight who frees the parents of Una by defeating a dragon, not named for an international organization.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Red Cross\ulnone  Knight\par
(10)  This damsel unhorses Guyon.  In search of Artegall, this representative of Chastity overcomes six knights with her magical lance at the Castle Joyous, and later slew the Amazon Radigund to rescue Artegall after fighting him unknowingly.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Britomart\ulnone\par
(10)  He visits the Castle of Alma with Guyon and chases after Florimell at a forest, then helps Scudamour rescue Amoret.  Earlier he frees the Red Cross Knight from Orgoglio and leads him back to Una.  He also married Guinevere.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Arthur\ulnone\par
\par
17.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify these plays by George Bernard Shaw.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Not performed until 1902 when refused a license; this play's heroine finds out that her mother became a proprietor of brothels by graduating through the titular.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Mrs. Warren's Profession\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  With \i Caesar and Cleopatra\i0  and \i Captain Brassbound's Conversion\i0 , this play makes up \i Three Plays for Puritans\i0 ; it takes place in New Hampshire during the American Rev.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Devil's Disciple\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Jack Tanner finally marries Ann Whitefield for the continuation of the human race in this play with a 3rd act dream scene "Don Juan in Hell."\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Man and Superman\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
18.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His wife Georgie Hyde-Lees experimented with automatic writing, which he claims provided glimpses into a system he documented in \i A Vision\i0  as a 26,000 year wheel of history with civilizations evolving in 2000 year gyres.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this poet, who also claimed personality types are related to the phases of the moon, and wrote "The Wild Swans at Coole," "The Tower," and "The Second Coming."\par
\tab Answer: William Butler \ul Yeats\ulnone\par
(10)  Yeats founded what later became the Abbey Theatre in Dublin with this female playwright and resident of Coole Park, who collaborated with him in \i Cathleen ni Houlihan\i0  and many one-act plays about Irish peasant life.\par
\tab Answer: Lady Isabella Augusta \ul Gregory\ulnone\par
(10)  She appears in Yeats' "When You Are Old" and "The Circus Animals' Desertion."  This Irish nationalist actress rejected Yeats' proposals and married John MacBride, whom Yeats later calls "a drunken, vainglorious lout" in "Easter 1916."\par
\tab Answer: Maud \ul Gonne\ulnone\par
\pard\par
19.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name the \i Canterbury Tales\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  This incomplete tale sees the apprentice Perkin leaving his master to engage in stealing and gambling, and marries a wife who fed herself through prostitution.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Cook\ulnone 's Tale"\par
(10)  The cock Chanticleer dreams of death, but his wife Pertelote laughs at his thoughts.  Chanticleer gets abducted by a fox because of his vanity for his voice, but narrowly escapes when the villagers give chase to the fox.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Nun's Priest\ulnone 's Tale"\i\par
\i0 (10)  Told by a gap-toothed woman, it tells of an ugly woman who informs a knight that what women want most is power over men, then she turns beautiful and submissive.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Wife of Bath\ulnone 's Tale"\par
\pard\par
20.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Novels by H. G. Wells.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The underground monsters Morlocks farm and eat the frivolous Eloi, and the traveler also sees a giant crab and the end of the solar system.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Time Machine\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Orson Welles dramatized this novel about the invasion of England by the Martians and their ruin in the hands of the bacteria of earth.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul War of the Worlds\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The autobiographical George Ponderevo, son of a housekeeper, apprenticed to a druggist who makes a fortune on a fake medicine, becomes an airplane designer.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Tono-Bungay\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
21.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Thomas Gray poems from lines.  Abbreviations are acceptable.  FTPE.\par
(10)  "No more; where ignorance is bliss, / 'Tis folly to be wise."\par
\tab Answer: "Ode on a Distant Prospect of \ul Eton College\ulnone "\par
(10)  "Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife, / Their sober wishes never learned to stray;"\par
\tab Answer: "Elegy Written in a \ul Country Churchyard\ulnone "\par
(10)  "A whisker first and then a claw, / With many an ardent wish, / She stretched in vain to reach the prize."\par
\tab Answer: "Ode on the \ul Death of a Favorite Cat\ulnone , Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes"\par
\pard\par
}
 