{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1503;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs24 Packet by Berkeley Wind and Ghosts (Nick Meyer, Juliana Froggatt, Ray Luo)\par
\par
TOSS-UPS\par
\b0\par
1. The 1990 movie \ul Tune In Tomorrow\ulnone  is an adaptation of this book, with Barbara Hershey and Peter Falk playing the book\rquote s title characters. Cousin Nancy and her would-be boyfriend Javier aid the book\rquote s protagonists, one a recent divorcee and the other a law student who works at a radio station, whose lives are used as fodder for a soap opera by Pedro Camacho, the titular author. FTP, name this thinly fictionalized autobiographical account of Mario Vargas Llosa\rquote s affair with his uncle\rquote s ex-wife.\par
Answer: \ul\b Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter\ulnone\b0  (or La \ul\b tia Julia y el escribador\ulnone\b0 )\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 2. Its onset is subject to systematic and accidental gaps, the latter a source for phonologically valid nonsense words.  It is closed if it has a coda, and penultimately stressed in English if it is heavy. Consisting of a nucleus usually made up of a vowel, glide, or syllabic nasals or liquids, it is divided into an onset and a rhyme.  FTP name this phonological unit of which there are two in the last word of this sentence.\par
\tab Answer: \ul syllable\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
3. It was destroyed by torpedoes fired by the submarine "I-58" while in the Philippine Sea.  Its captain was court-martialed for failure to follow a zigzag course, though he had no reason to.  A school project by young Hunter Scott helped lead to the captain's exoneration in 2001, though Charles McVay had committed suicide years earlier.  Just before its sinking on July 30, 1945, this cruiser had carried the "Little Boy" atomic bomb to Tinian.  FTP, name this ship, the fate of which was recounted by Quint in "Jaws", who described how most of the survivors of the initial shipwreck were eaten by sharks before the belated Navy rescue.\par
\par
uss _INDIANAPOLIS_\par
\par
4. Examples of this painting\rquote s unreality can be found in such features as the moon hanging in a daylight sky on the right, and several bright blue flowers on the right. Birds, lions, a snake, and an elephant can be discerned in and amongst the foliage, although two other figures are most visible. A black woman in a brightly-colored skirt plays a recorder  while a nude white woman reclining on a sofa to the left looks on in, FTP, what Henri Rousseau work?\par
Answer: The \ul\b Dream\ulnone\b0  (or Le \ul\b r\'eave\ulnone\b0 ; accept \ul\b Yadwigha\rquote s Dream\ulnone\b0 )\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20\par
5. It was discovered when DNA hybridized to both the \i Antennapedia\i0  gene and the \i fushi tarazu\i0  gene.  Also found in the \i bicoid\i0  gene in the bithorax complex of \i Drosophila\i0 , it codes for a 60-amino-acid domain forming 3 alpha helices, one of which fits into the DNA major groove while others interact with transcription factors.  Gehring, McGinnis, and Levine at Switzerland, and Kaufman and Scott at Indiana independently discovered this set of 180 base pairs found arranged in the same order in humans, flies, frogs, and tomatoes.  FTP name this sequence of DNA crucial for development.\par
\tab Answer: \ul homeobox\ulnone ; or \ul hox\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
6. The western boundary of the United States between 1795 and 1803, its name comes from the local Native American for "crooked river", and the mouth of this 100-mile-long river is only 30 miles from its headwaters in Geauga county. Although it won national fame for the events of June 22, 1969, events of similar or greater magnitude had occurred many times since 1936.  The 1969 event spawned a "Time" magazine article which said that it "oozes rather than flows" and that a swimmer "does not drown but decays"; the event in question purportedly began when sparks from a train car of molten steel ignited an oil slick below.  FTP, name this now less-flammable river of Cleveland, Ohio.\par
\par
_CUYAHOGA_ river\par
\par
7. This character appears as Clytemnestra twice in the course of the novel; appropriately enough, the author leaves ambiguous the question of whether she had a hand in Jos' [pron. "JOHS"] death, from which she gains a large amount of money after her estrangement from her husband, Rawdon Crowley. When we first see her, she tosses Johnson's Dixonary out the window of a carriage after she graduates from Miss Pinkerton's school at Chiswick, which astonishes and horrifies her best friend, Amelia Sedley. FTP, name this woman, the conniving antiheroine of William Thackeray's \ul Vanity Fair\ulnone .\par
Answer: \ul\b Becky\ulnone\b0  (or \ul\b Rebecca\ulnone\b0 ) \ul\b Sharp\ulnone\b0  (accept any; also accept \ul\b Becky\ulnone\b0  (or \ul\b Rebecca)\ulnone\b0  Crowley)\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 8. When Chilion and Mahlon died, the mother-in-law of this biblical figure asked her and Orpah to return to her people.  Although Orpah left, this person clung to the wife of Elimelech, Naomi, who urged her to glean at the field of a next-of-kin and lay at his feet until morning.  When another man refused to buy Naomi's land, the next-of-kin acted to acquire the possessions of Elimelech, including this Moabite wife of the dead Mahlon.  FTP name this mother of Jesse, grandmother of David, and wife of Boaz.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Ruth\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24 9. This object zips around its primary about three times a day.  At an altitude of 3,700 miles, it's so close that the curvature of the planet prevents it from being seen at latitudes above 70 degrees; its slowly decaying orbit will probably cause its conversion into rings in tens of millions of years.  Only the encouragement of the wife of its discoverer prevented him from giving up the search; its largest crater, Stickney, is named in her honor.  FTP, name this moon discovered by Asaph Hall in 1877, the innermost and largest of the moons of Mars.\par
\par
_PHOBOS_\par
\par
10. His wife, Henrietta Maria, refused to take part in their Protestant coronation ceremony, so he was married not to her, but to his people. He was constantly at odds with Parliament, one of whose members, Sir John Eliot, gave a speech comparing this man\rquote s favorite, Buckingham, to Sejanus. Although he ruled alone during the \ldblquote Eleven Years\rquote  Tyranny\rdblquote , this king\rquote s money problems forced him to call the increasingly hostile Short and Long Parliaments. FTP, name this hapless British king who lost his life on January 30, 1649.\par
Answer: \ul\b Charles I\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 11. One variant of this technique adds molecules that have specific affinity to the extract.  Applied to proteins, the size exclusion version uses carbohydrates with small pores that allow small proteins to enter but exclude large ones, allowing the latter to pass through more quickly.  DEAE is often used as a positively charged group, an anion exchanger; carboxymethyl cellulose is used as a negatively charged group, a cation exchanger for charge separation.  FTP name this technique that uses receptor-bound beads to separate extracts moving downward in a tube.\par
\tab Answer: \ul column chromatography\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
12. On September 7, 1998, Jean-Claude Bianco found a bracelet in his trawl net engraved with the names of this man, his wife, and his publisher.  In 2000, diver Luke Vanrel found the wreck of his P-38 Lightning off the Ile de Riou, but a French moratorium on diving in the area prevented confirmation until recently.  A notoriously bad pilot, he had been banned from serving with the American force for crashing too many planes, and he was far too heavy and old for the P-38.  FTP, name this man, whose disappearance during a July 31, 1944 reconnaissance mission added to the melancholy of works such as "Night Flight" and "The Little Prince."\par
\par
Antoine de _SAINT-EXUPERY_\par
\par
13. The names sound the same: the name of many U.S. towns, including one in Chautauqua county that's the home of a State University of New York branch; a name proposed by Samuel Mitchell in 1801 for the fledgling United States; a short-lived republic founded in 1826 by impresario Haden Edwards in Nacogdoches, Texas that was quickly quashed after Edwards found no help against the Mexican authority; finally, a Balkan kingdom, the rival of Sylvania, that is given $20 million by Gloria Teasdale after Rufus T. Firefly becomes president.  FTP, give the name of the fictional country in "Duck Soup."\par
\par
_FREDONIA_ or _FREEDONIA_\par
\par
14. It\rquote s the number of \ldblquote Missing Persons\rdblquote  in a 1974 short, number of \ldblquote Men a Year\rdblquote  in a 1939 movie, and number of \ldblquote Years in Sing Sing\rdblquote  in a 1932 film. It\rquote s also twice the number of \ldblquote Black Men Named George\rdblquote  in a 2002 TV movie, and four times the number of \ldblquote Fingers of Dr. T.\rdblquote  FTP, give this numeral, also the depth in leagues at which the Nautilus can be found \ldblquote Under the Sea\rdblquote .\par
Answer: \ul\b 20,000\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20\par
15. A case where classical and quantum results agree, this process dominates in the visible, microwave, and radio parts of the spectrum.  The change in frequency is negligible compared with the frequency of radiation of bound electrons in phase with incident waves.  Theorized by a physicist around 1900, electromagnetic waves produce oscillating accelerations on the electrons, which radiate at the same frequency.  FTP name this process that scatters photons without modifying their wavelength.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Rayleigh\ulnone  scattering\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
16. One of its three main characters is a fan of Tintin, the New Zealand All Blacks rugby team, and guitarist Leo Kottke; he works as an ad exec.  The second does all the household chores and has a toy T. Rex; the third abhors monkeys (especially baboons) but loves Greek tuna in oil on crackers.  The first is a man named Rob Wilco, the second is a yellow Lab/Shar Pei mix named Satchel, and the third is a psychotic Siamese named Bucky.  FTP, name this comic strip drawn by Darby Conley.\par
\par
_GET FUZZY_\par
\par
17. This play was the third of its author\rquote s to feature Euripides, who was dead at the time. In it, Xanthias is made to walk around a river and to switch costumes with his master, so that the angry residents of Hades will think that he is Heracles. After being weighed in the scales, it is proved that Aeschylus\rquote  verses are heavier than Euripides\rquote , thus proving Aeschylus the King of Tragedy, at least until Dionysus takes him back to earth. FTP, name this Aristophanes play whose title creatures form a chorus in the River Styx.\par
Answer: The \ul\b Frogs\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 18. Only forty of these things are known, with the fortieth being discovered by Michael Shafer on November 17, 2003.  Their namesake conjectured that the first few were those with index 1,2,3,5,7,13,17,19,31,67,127, and 257, though after his death it was shown that 67 and 257 should not have been on the list, and 61,89, and 107 should have been.  The Lucas-Lehmer test serves as a useful method of finding them; also, if "p" is the index, then any factor must be of the form "2kp + 1".  Shafer's had index 20,996,011 and was found using GIMPS.  FTP, identify these numbers, named for a 17th-century French monk, that are primes one less than a power of two.\par
\par
_MERSENNE_ primes\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 19. The heroine of this play believes in breaking down barriers between people by "one night communications."  The hero lives on the fantastic level, but operates on the realistic level.  The completion of a poem symbolic of this play causes the oldest living practicing poet to die.  A band of female tourists are stuck in Maxine Faulk's hotel when Reverend Lawrence Shannon is accused of seducing Charlotte Goodall.  FTP name this Tennessee Williams play about the nocturnal release of a lizard.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Night of the Iguana\ulnone\i0\par
\par
20. Diaghilev rejected this work because it was "not so much a ballet, but a portrait of a ballet."  Taking place in the Imperial Court of Vienna in 1855, it represents its composer's vision of war and death.  Viennese dynamics and Straussian glissandos begin the dance that ends not in glorious apotheosis, but in nightmare, frenzy, hysteria, and death: the feverish evil lurking behind convention and aristocracy.  The second most famous dance by the composer of \i Rapsodie espagnole\i0 , FTP, name this work by Maurice Ravel.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i La valse\ulnone\i0 ; prompt on waltz\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
21. The end of Evelyn Waugh\rquote s \ul The Loved One\ulnone  contains a terrible pun on this poem\rquote s \ldblquote Nicean barks of yore.\rdblquote  Its addressee is described as \ldblquote Psyche, from the regions which/Are holy land\rdblquote  and as having \ldblquote hyacinth hair\rdblquote , \ldblquote Naiad airs\rdblquote  and a \ldblquote classic face\rdblquote . FTP, name this Poe poem whose eponymous addressee is compared to the woman whose name she shares, whose own face launched a thousand ships.\par
Answer: \ul\b To Helen\ulnone\b0\par
\par
22. His father freed Babylon from its dependence on Assyria, going so far as to raze Nineveh. He united the Median and Babylonian dynasties by his marriage to the daughter of Cyaxares, his father\rquote s most important ally. This man defeated a combined Egyptian and Assyrian force at Carchemish in 606 B.C.E., and when his father died the following year, he returned home to become king. FTP, name this man who destroyed Jerusalem in 586 B.C.E. and whose hanging gardens were a Wonder of the Ancient World.\par
Answer: \ul\b Nebuchadnezzar II\ulnone\b0  (or \ul\b Nebuchadrezzar II\ulnone\b0 , or \ul\b Nabucodonosor II\ulnone\b0 , or \ul\b Nabu-kudduri-usur II\ulnone\b0 )\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 23. It lies southwest of Kaipo and the Damcyan desert and directly north of the volcanic island of Agart, the site of a bottomless well.  Situated on the northeastern corner of its namesake coast line, it can be reached via the old water-way and the sea-crossing Serpent road from Mysidia.  Home of Baigan and Namingway, it is at war with the ninjas of Eblan and the monks of Fabul.  The only kingdom to open a path to the moon, it lies southeast of the Misty cave and the village of Callers, the site of dark knight Cecil's first mission.  FTP name this home of dragoon Kain, the crystal-hoarding royal kingdom of \i Final Fantasy IV\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \ul Baron\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 24. This man accomplished his most famous deed as a wedding gift for Hippodameia and Polydectes.  He was forced to use a newly acquired possession when the bride's uncle Phineus interrupted his wedding feast.  He forced Atlas to tell him the location of the Graeae, whose eye he refused to give back until they told him how to obtain the winged sandals, invisible helmet and magic pouch.  He accidently killed Acrisius his grandfather by tossing a discus.  FTP name this slayer of Medusa.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Perseus\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
\b BONUSES\b0\par
1. Identify these baseball players who suffered sleep-related injuries, FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. This Tampa Bay centerfielder, who hails from Rhode Island, had to DH in a game because he strained his neck, probably while sleeping.\par
\par
Rocco BALDELLI\par
\par
(10) b. This Oakland right-hander, a rookie in 2003, strained his shoulder in spring training while reaching for his alarm clock.\par
\par
Rich HARDEN\par
\par
(10) c. This outfielder, who played for seven different teams and slugged 186 homers between 1989 and 2001, went on the DL because he cut himself smashing a glass table while dreaming he was being attacked by spiders.\par
\par
Glenallen HILL\par
\par
2. Given an eponymous character, name the work of literature in which he or she appears, FTPE.\par
10) Sarah Woodruff \par
Answer: The \ul\b French Lieutenant\rquote s Woman\ulnone\b0\par
10) Helen Graham\par
Answer: The \ul\b Tenant of Wildfell Hall\ulnone\b0\par
10) Roy Hobbs\par
Answer: The \ul\b Natural\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 3. Identify the following writers FTPE:\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 (10) This French critic and author of \i What is Cinema? \i0 wrote about cinema in his journal \i Cahiers du Cinema\i0 , building a theoretical basis for the New Wave.\par
\tab Answer: Andre \ul Bazin\ulnone\par
(10) This Spanish writer of \i What is Philosophy? \i0 philosophized on the destructive nature of mass-minded mediocre people in \i The Revolt of the Masses\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Jose \ul Ortega y Gasset\ulnone\par
(10) This German physicist and author of \i What is Life? \i0 spent part of his life at Dublin's Institute of Advanced Studies and shared a Nobel Prize with Paul Dirac.\par
\tab Answer: Erwin \ul Schrodinger\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
4. Identify the following from the representation theory of finite groups FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. A representation that cannot be written as the direct sum of representations of smaller dimension is known as this.\par
\par
_IRREDUCIBLE_\par
\par
(10) b. The number of irreducible representations (up to isomorphism) of a finite group is equal to the number of these equivalence classes into which the group elements can be divided.\par
\par
_CONJUGACY_ classes\par
\par
(10) c. The sum of the squares of the dimensions of the irreducible representations of a finite group G (up to isomorphism) is equal to this quantity.\par
\par
the _SIZE_ of G (accept _NUMBER OF ELEMENTS_, or equivalents)\par
\par
5. Name the doctrine from quotes about it, 30-20-10.\par
30) Bierce defined one who subscribed to it as \ldblquote A pious gentleman, who believed in letting all people do as \i he\i0  liked.\rdblquote\par
20) Mencken described it as \ldblquote the haunting fear that someone, somewhere, may be happy.\rdblquote\par
10) Macaulay noted that its followers \ldblquote hated bear-baiting, not because it gave pain to the bear, but because it gave pleasure to the spectators.\rdblquote\par
Answer: \ul\b Puritan\ulnone\b0 ism\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 6. Identify the following FTPE.\par
(10)  This effect provides the theoretical basis for looking at the moderator while quiz bowl questions are being read.  It states that listeners who watch the lips of the speaker are more likely to interpret distorted, noisy speech signals correctly.\par
\tab Answer: \ul McGurk\ulnone  effect\par
(10)  Working at the McGurk Institute of New York under Max Gottlieb, this titular research scientist in a Sinclair Lewis novel discovers the X principle.\par
\tab Answer: Dr. Martin \ul Arrowsmith\ulnone\par
(10)  The X principle was actually one of this type of virus that can undergo either lytic or lysogenic cycles in its infection of bacteria.\par
\tab Answer: \ul bacteriophage\ulnone\par
\pard\f0\fs24\par
7. In books set in the tropics, ice often plays an important role.  Identify the\par
following FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. In "100 Years of Solitude", this patriarch, when shown ice by a gypsy, exclaims "This is the great invention of our time."\par
\par
_J_ose Arcadio _BUENDIA_ (prompt on BUENDIA)\par
\par
(10) b. In this novel, the body of Papa Monzano, dictator of San Lorenzo, is converted into ice-9; when his body falls into the sea, the oceans are likewise converted.\par
\par
_CAT'S CRADLE_\par
\par
(10) c. This novel set in Honduras revolves around a giant ice machine, nicknamed "Fat Boy", built in the jungle by inventor Allie Fox.\par
\par
the _MOSQUITO COAST_\par
\par
8. Name these Church councils, FTPE.\par
10) This first ecumenical council was called by Constantine in 325, and condemned Arianism.\par
Answer: \ul\b First\ulnone\b0  council of \ul\b Nicaea\par
\ulnone\b0 10) This council, held in 1095, saw Pope Urban II call for help for the Eastern Churches, a call that would be answered with the First Crusade.\par
Answer: Council of \ul\b Clermont\par
\ulnone\b0 10) This council met in 1179, condemned the Waldensian and Cathar heresies, and dealt with the recent anti-pope schism by instituting election reforms.\par
Answer: \ul\b Third\ulnone\b0  council of the \ul\b Lateran\par
\ulnone\b0\par
9. Answer the following about greedy algorithms in computer science FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. This man's greedy algorithm, given a character frequency table, constructs an optimal prefix code.\par
\par
David A. _HUFFMAN_\par
\par
(10) b. The greedy algorithms of both Kruskal and Prim create this structure on a weighted, undirected graph.\par
\par
_MINIMAL SPANNING TREE_ (prompt on partial answers)\par
\par
(10) c. This Dutch computer scientist described a greedy algorithm in 1959 that solves the single-source shortest-paths problem on weighted, directed graphs.\par
\par
E. W. _DIJKSTRA_\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 10. Identify the following films found within films, FTPE.\par
(10)  Plotting not her comeback, but her return, Norma Desmond in \i Sunset Boulevard \i0 hosts a lavish private showing of this incomplete 1928 Erich von Stroheim masterpiece starring Gloria Swanson as the titular monarch.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Queen Kelly\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  C. C. Baxter watches an informercial for this film as it is shown on TV in Billy Wilder's \i The Apartment\i0 .  It features Greta Garbo uttering her trademark line "I want to be alone," and takes place in a lavish German inn.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Grand Hotel\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Produced by Monumental Pictures, this film produced in its namesake film stars Don Lockwood and Kathy Selden, who used to dub voices for lavish silent films.  It contains a number, sung by Gene Kelly, whose choreography involves lampposts.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Singin' in the Rain\ulnone\i0\par
\par
\pard\f0\fs24 11. Identify these islands that just barely make the largest-100 list from\par
descriptions, FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. About 400 ships have wrecked on the outlying reefs of this island, 90th in size, that lies at the entrance of the St. Lawrence River.\par
\par
_ANTICOSTI_ island\par
\par
(10) b. This island, 94th in size, is the home of Copenhagen, Denmark.\par
\par
_SJAELLAND_\par
\par
(10) c. Grande Terre, 97th in size, is the main island of this archipelago, a French possession in the southern Indian Ocean.\par
\par
_KERGUELEN_\par
\par
12. Name these Nigerian authors from works, FTPE.\par
10) The poem collections \ul Heavensgate\ulnone , \ul Limits\ulnone , and \ul Silences\ulnone .\par
Answer: Christopher \ul\b Okigbo\ulnone\b0\par
10) The novels \ul Things Fall Apart\ulnone  and \ul No Longer at Ease\ulnone .\par
Answer: Albert Chinualumogu (Chinua) \ul\b Achebe\ulnone\b0\par
10) The magical realist novel \ul The Landscapes Within\ulnone  and the Booker Prize-winning \ul The Famished Road\ulnone .\par
Answer: Ben \ul\b Okri \ulnone\b0\par
\ul\b\par
\ulnone\b0 13. Identify these locations within the Gettysburg battle site, FTSNOP:\par
\par
(5+5) a. On the second day of the battle, the Union and Confederate forces\par
faced each other from these similarly-named ridges.  Name them FFPE.\par
\par
_CEMETERY_ ridge and _SEMINARY_ ridge (either order)\par
\par
(10) b. General G.K. Warren saved this strategic hill on the Union left flank\par
when he noticed it was unmanned.  Name it FTP.\par
\par
_LITTLE ROUND TOP_\par
\par
(10) c. Pickett's Charge on the third day broke at this salient in the stone\par
wall behind which the Union drew up its lines.  Name it FTP.\par
\par
the _ANGLE_\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 14. She began her career by writing fashion picture captions for \i Vogue\i0  and moved on to writing (mostly negative) drama reviews for \i Vanity Fair\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this member of the Algonquin Roundtable whose reviews for \i The New Yorker\i0  were collected in \i Constant Reader\i0 , and whose poetry was published in \i Enough Rope\i0  and \i Not So Deep as a Well\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Dorothy \ul Parker\ulnone\par
(10)  "Woman wants monogamy; / Man delights in novelty. / Love is woman's moon and sun; / Man has other forms of fun. / Woman lives but in her lord; / Count to ten, and man is bored."  This is the gist and sum of Parker's general review of what situation?\par
\tab Answer: "General Review of the \ul Sex\ulnone  Situation"\par
(10)  Along with husband Alan Campbell, Parker wrote the screenplay for this 1937 William Wellman film about the suicide of declining actor Norman Maine and the rise of his wife Esther Blodgett, played in the 1954 George Cukor version by Judy Garland.\par
\tab Answer: \i A \ul Star is Born\ulnone\i0\par
\par
\pard\f0\fs24 15. Answer these questions about the history of the Democratic Republic of the\par
Congo FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. When the Congo declared independence from Belgium in 1960, this man was appointed as its first prime minister; he was later arrested and murdered in jail.\par
\par
Patrice LUMUMBA\par
\par
(10) b. This province, which shares its name with Yaphet Kotto's drug lord villain in "Live and Let Die", attempted to break away from the Congo in 1960.\par
\par
KATANGA\par
\par
(10) c. This man was President of the briefly-extant Katanga, and went on to become prime minister of the Congo in July 1964.\par
\par
Moise TSHOMBE\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 16. Identify the following geological periods of the Paleozoic era.  15-5.\par
(15)  Sea level rose during this period while land masses were coalescing into two large continents.  Marine life like jawless and bony fishes rebounded.  Most significant is the first colonization of land by terrestrial arthropods like scorpions and millipedes.\par
(5)  It lasted from 440 to 400 million years ago and is the third period of the Paleozoic era.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Silurian\ulnone\par
(15)  Compressed remains of trees that grew in swampy forests of this period are the coal we now mine for energy.  Insects evolved wings and diversified.  The first reptiles evolved.  Fossil records from this period retain fine details of their structure.\par
(5)  It lasted from 345 to 290 million years ago and is the second to last period of the Paleozoic era.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Carboniferous\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\f0\fs24 17. Identify the following from the history of the Panama Canal FTPE:\par
\par
(10) a. The Geographical Society of Paris organized a committee, with this man\par
at its head, to study the feasibility of an interoceanic canal; his\par
recommendation of a sea-level route proved disastrous.\par
\par
Ferdinand de _LESSEPS_\par
\par
(10) b. This man discovered the mosquito vector for yellow fever while in\par
Cuba in 1900; his subordinate would push for mosquito eradication in the\par
Canal Zone.\par
\par
Doctor Walter _REED_\par
\par
(10) c. This man was chief engineer when the canal was completed; a New York\par
City bridge is named for him.\par
\par
Colonel George Washington _GOETHALS_ (pronounced GOTH-ulls)\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f1\fs20 18. Stuff about molecular orbitals, FTPE.\par
(10)  This is the amount of energy by which bonding level drops and antibonding level is raised in the overlap of two atomic orbitals, depending on bond strength.\par
\tab Answer: energy \ul splitting\ulnone\par
(10)  This is an approach for building linear sp, trigonal sp^2, and tetrahedral sp^3 orbitals by mixing 2s and 1, 2, or 3 2p atomic orbitals, creating bonding orbitals.\par
\tab Answer: \ul hybrid\ulnone ization\par
(10)  While a sigma bond forms along the internuclear axis, this other type of bond is perpendicular to it, giving rise to double and triple bonds.\par
\tab Answer: \ul pi\ulnone  bond\par
\par
\pard\f0\fs24 19. Given the Greek subject of one of Plutarch\rquote s Parallel Lives, give the Roman subject with whom they\rquote re paired, F15PE or 5 if you need an easier clue.\par
15) Agis and Cleomenes\par
5) These brothers were each assassinated after trying to introduce land reforms in the Senate.\par
Answer: \ul\b Tiberius\ulnone\b0  Sempronius and \ul\b Gaius\ulnone\b0  Sempronius \ul\b Gracchus\ulnone\b0  (or the \ul\b Gracchi\ulnone\b0 )\par
15) Demosthenes\par
5) This man, a prolific author, prosecutor, Senator, and orator, is perhaps best known for foiling Catiline\rquote s conspiracy.\par
Answer: Marcus Tullius \ul\b Cicero\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 20. Answer these questions about Catullus, FTSNOP.\par
5) Probably Clodia, this woman\rquote s name appears in 7 of Catullus\rquote  poems, which describe his love affair with her.\par
Answer: \ul\b Lesbia\ulnone\b0\par
10) Catullus 51 is a translation of a poem by this Greek poet also known for loving women.\par
Answer: \ul\b Sappho\ulnone\b0\par
15) This is the name he gave to the young man with whom he writes of having had another affair.\par
Answer: \ul\b Iuventius\ulnone\b0  ( \ldblquote Iu\rdblquote  pron. \ldblquote yoo\rdblquote ; accept \ul\b Juventius\ulnone\b0 )\par
\par
21. Name the artist of each these altarpieces, FTPE.\par
10) The Ghent Altarpiece (name either artist)\par
Answer: Hubert or Jan \ul\b Van Eyck\b0\par
\ulnone 10) The Maesta Altarpiece\par
Answer: \ul\b Duccio\ulnone\b0  di Buoninsegna\par
10) The Isenheim Altarpiece\par
Answer: Matthias \ul\b Grunewald\par
\par
\ulnone\b0 22. Give the authors of these eighteenth comedic plays, FTPE.\par
10) \ul The Beggar\rquote s Opera\par
\ulnone Answer: John \ul\b Gay\par
\ulnone\b0 10) \ul She Stoops to Conquer\par
\ulnone Answer: Oliver \ul\b Goldsmith\par
\ulnone\b0 10) \ul The Tragedy of Tragedies\par
\ulnone Answer: Henry \ul\b Fielding\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\b0\f1\fs20 23. Identify the following philosophers of the Hundred Schools of Thought Period.  FTPE.\par
(10)  A disciple of Confucius, he declared that man was by nature good and held that a ruler could not govern without popular consent, so that despotic rule resulted in the loss of the mandate of heaven.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Meng Zi\ulnone ; or \ul Mencius\ulnone\par
(10)  Another follower of Confucius, he declared man to be innately selfish and that goodness is possible only through education.  The best government is authoritarian, not ethical.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Xun Zi\ulnone\par
(10)  He believed that all men are equal and universally loved before God and that all actions must be utilitarian.  He advocated pacificism and unity of thought and action.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Muo Zi\ulnone ; or \ul Mo Zi\par
\par
\ulnone 24. Stuff from the kinetic theory of gases, FTPE.\par
(10)  As temperature increases, this distribution named after a Scottish physicist flattens.  The peak of this molecular distribution is $\\sqrt\{\\frac\{2 \\kappa_B T\}\{m\}\}$, while the mean is $\\sqrt\{\\frac\{8 \\kappa_B T\}\{\\pi m\}\}$, where T is temperature and m is mass.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Maxwell speed\ulnone  distribution\par
(10)  Calculated by $\\sqrt\{2\} \\pi d^2 \\bar\{c\} n$, where d is molecular diameter and n is number density, this quantity has units of inverse seconds.\par
\tab Answer: \ul collision frequency\ulnone ; accept answers with equivalent semantics\par
(10)  Calculated by $\\frac\{\\bar\{c\}\}\{Z\}$, where Z is collision frequency, this is the average distance traveled by a molecule between successive collisions.\par
\tab Answer: \ul mean free path\ulnone\par
\pard\ul\b\f0\fs24\par
}
 