{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 LateSpring-2005\par
Questions by Cal Berkeley B (Andrew Lim, Ray Luo, Paul Reverdy).\par
Note: this is the randomized version.\par
Note: the first tossup of this theme packet must not be moved or replaced.\par
\par
\b Cal Berkeley B tossups\b0 .\par
\par
01.\par
The 2, 3, 10, and 11 exons in the pre-mRNA for tropomyosin are spliced out for its expression in this organ.  It gives its name to a hormone in \i Rhodnius\i0  secreted by the corpora cardiaca that stimulates ecdysone release, causing molting.  Its ingestion by the Fore causes kuru, and when starved, it consumes beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate.  Losing function in the paresis phase of syphilis and in beri-beri, it was mapped by Korbinian Brodmann, and developed from the ectoderm of the gastrula.  Its stem includes medulla and pons.  FTP name this organ divided into telencephalon and diencephalon, quite large in humans, who frequently use it to think.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tab Answer: \ul brain\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
02.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 He told Noam Chomsky that "we think we think with our brains, but personally I think with my feet," and "I've seen enough electroencephalograms to know there's not the slightest trace of a thought in the brain."  Endorsed in a Louis Althusser article, he believed that the ego is a part of the unconscious, and that the goal of analysis is to decenter self.  His theory of development includes the unachievable real stage, and the symbolic and mirror stages, reinterpreting Freud.  FTP name this eccentric French psychoanalyst whose \i Ecrits\i0  emphasized the language of the unconscious.\par
\tab Answer: Jacques \ul Lacan\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
03.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The protagonist of this novel could not "acknowledge that her brain was warped, for the brain itself must assist in that acknowledgment," and would instead like to look up gods in the dictionary to prepare for a trip to Greece.  Refusing to inform the Miss Alans about her recent breakup because they are such gossips, she reminds her mom that she and her brother Freddy still love Windy Corner.  The concluding chapter on "the end of the Middle Ages" relates a return to Florence where, at the Pensione Bertolini overlooking the Arno, Charlotte Bartlett refused an offer from Mr. Emerson to exchange compartments with Lucy Honeychurch.  FTP name this E. M. Forster novel.\par
\tab Answer: \i A \ul Room with a View\par
\pard\ulnone\i0\f1\par
04.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 It asks "why should I need to keep [my passion] since what is kept must be adulterated," one of the "thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season."  The description of "depraved May, dogwood and chestnut, flowering judas, to be eaten, to be divided, to be drunk" in this poem draws from \i The Education of Henry Adams\i0 .  Christ came when darkness swaddles "word within a word, unable to speak a word."  "Being read to by a boy, waiting for rain," FTP name this T. S. Eliot poem originally intended to be the prelude to \i The Wasteland\i0 , a monologue by "an old man in a dry month."\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul Gerontion\ulnone "\par
\f1\par
05.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The book \i A Choice Not an Echo\i0  considered it a product of brainwashing, claiming that the default opinions of people are progressive.  Martha Griffiths' discharge petition allowed it to leave the Judiciary Committee, and Elizabeth Holtzman's bill called for its extension.  Passed in 1950 with a nullifying rider, it was endorsed by United Auto Workers and AFL-CIO, but opposed by Missouri, which filed an antitrust suit on the basis of it, and by Phyllis Schlafly.  Authored by Alice Paul, it won endorsement from the League of Women Voters in 1972.  Falling 3 states short of ratification, FTP name this amendment that would have prohibited discrimination based on sex.\par
\tab Answer: \ul E\ulnone qual \ul R\ulnone ights \ul A\ulnone mendment\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 06.\par
According to hiddenmeanings.com, he is the new spiral consciousness that will come with Jesus according to Revelation 3:14, and acts as the hippocampus of your brain, because he is linked to Mnemosyne by creating Aganippe.  Brother of the father of Geryon, he aided in defeating the Solymi and the Amazons after being abducted from the Acrocotinth.  Causing the Hippocrene on Mount Helicon to flow, he helped complete a quest given by Iobates.  Later carrying lightning bolts for Zeus, he was drinking from the Peirene spring before being captured with a golden bridle by Bellerophon, who killed the Chimaera while riding on him.  FTP name this Grecian winged horse.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Pegasus\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
07.\par
\f0 The city in Illinois by this name contains Brainerd Park and its namesake lakes.  The port by this name lies west of Adelaide in South Australia, and was explored by Matthew Flinders.  Counties by this name lie in southern Maine, in southeastern Nevada, and one covering a fourth of New Mexico where its namesake war was fought in 1878 between rival merchants and Billy the Kid distinguished himself.  The cathedral by this name in England northeast of Nottingham was built to accommodate the body of Saint Hugh.  Lending its name to a black university in Jefferson City, Missouri, FTP give the common name referring to the capital of Nebraska and our 16th president.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Lincoln\par
\ulnone\f1\par
08.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 C. F. D. Schubart described this musical instrument as suited to express the profound melancholy in tragic opera, and it was played by Aubrey and Dennis Brain, for whom Benjamin Britten wrote his \i Serenade\i0 .  With a range of 2.5 octaves from E to B flat, it is used in the 2nd movement of Cesar Franck's Symphony in D minor, act 3 scene 1 of Wagner's \i Tristan und Isolde\i0 , and the overture to Rossini's \i William Tell\i0 .  It has a bulbous bell and a metal bocal attached to a double-reed, and is really a tenor oboe.  FTP name this woodwind instrument also called cor anglais, but is not from Britain.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul English horn\ulnone ; accept "cor anglais" before it is mentioned\par
\f1\par
09.\par
The product of an unbalanced brain--one of its inventors committed suicide while on vacation at Duino--it can be written as the trace over state space of the operator e to the minus beta H, where H is the system's Hamiltonian operator.  In classical mechanics, the momenta and positions of the particles vary continuously, so it is written as an integral over phase space divided by h to the 3N, which accounts for density of states in phase space.  Computed as sum over all states of the Boltzmann or Gibbs factors, FTP name this quantity denoted Z, used in statistical mechanics.\par
\tab Answer: grand canonical \ul partition function\ulnone\f0\par
\f1\par
\f0 10.\par
He had a legendary appetite, often consuming entire hams and other rich "brain food" in one sitting, mental fuel that allowed him to produce plans that accounted for any mistake or misinformation, which he called "imponderabilia."  Later made duke of Lauenburg, he once served as ambassador to St. Petersburg after supporting Joseph von Radowitz' Erfurt Union presented to Friedrich Wilhelm IV.  Dismissed by Wilhelm II, he engineered the Three Emperors' League and the Congress of Berlin.  Proponent of resolution by "blood and iron," FTP name this chancellor behind Germany unification.\par
\tab Answer: Otto Eduard Leopold von \ul Bismarck\par
\ulnone\f1\par
11.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 In "Sensations and Brain Processes," J. J. C. Smart claimed it implies that identity theory is superior to Cartesian dualism.  It can be derived from Bayes factor using a Jeffreys prior by averaging over parameters to reduce type I error.  Rissanen and Akaike developed computational theories that generalized it by reducing Kolmogorov complexity.  George C. Williams argued for individual over group selection using a variant called Lloyd Morgan's Canon.  Akin to the information theoretic principle of Minimum Description Length, and invoked by Durand de Saint-Pourcain, FTP name this scientific paradigm and law of parsimony suggesting that entities are not to be multiplied beyond necessity, a sharp instrument used by an Oxford philosopher.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Occam's razor\ulnone  (Ockham's razor)\par
\f1\par
12.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 In one of her roles, she tells her on screen sister Connie Martin that "it takes a lot of brain to be dumb."  She calls her psychoanalyst a "horrible monster" in \i Carefree\i0  and notes that "matrimony is baloney, she'll be getting alimony" in \i 42nd Street\i0 .  1st cast in Broadway in \i Top Speed\i0 , she tells her pupil to "pick yourself up, dust yourself off, start all over again," singing in the role of dance teacher Linda Keene.  Born Virginia McMath, she won Oscar for \i Kitty Foyle\i0  after roles in \i Roberta\i0 , \i Follow the Fleet\i0 , \i Top Hat\i0  and \i Shall We Dance\i0 .  FTP name this partner of Fred Astaire.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Ginger \ul Rogers\ulnone ; accept "Virginia McMath" before it is mentioned\f1\par
\par
\f0 13.\par
Its leaders include a man whose cerebral nature has earned him the nickname "Two Brains"--welfare expert David Willetts, and anti-tax advocate Oliver Letwin.  Its top five priorities are immigration control, law enforcement, cleaner hospitals, school discipline, and lowered taxes, while security and defense aren't mentioned on their website.  They wish we wouldn't bring up their advocacy of closer ties with the US and support for the overthrow of Saddam, a significant shift for a party historically associated with power and prestige of the empire.  FTP name this party led by Michael Howard, which will challenge Tony Blair's Labor Party for leadership of the UK.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Conservative\ulnone  party; or \ul Tory\ulnone\par
\f1\par
14.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The protagonist claims to belong to a vanishing race of intellectuals having "brains without purpose, [hearing] noise without sound, [seeing] shape without substance," like "Hollow Men" who thought they conquered nature, which hit back with the chaos of \line neuroses.  The waitress in this play wants to go back to "Borks" in France, where her mom stays, and reads Francois Villon's poetry.  Chisholm gives his wife instructions before the gunfight, Boze is tied up for taking Jackie Cooper's gun, and washed-up author Alan Squier stands in Duke Mantee's way to get shot, and leave $5000 insurance for Gabby Maple.  FTP name this play by Robert Sherwood taking place at Arizona.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The \ul Petrified Forest\ulnone\i0\par
\f1\par
15.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 First name is the same.  The ruthless protagonist Lampton of John Braine's \i Room at the Top\i0 .  Dr. Cardin in Lillian Hellman's \i Children's Hour\i0 .  The black man who rescues Mrs. Higgins in Hitchcock's \i Life Boat\i0  and starts a gambling house in O'Neill's \i The Iceman Cometh\i0 .  A man named Tunney whom \i The Quiet American\i0  is spying for.  The title man named Ransom in a Larry Brown novel.  \i South Pacific\i0 's Officer Cable who sings "Younger Than Springtime."  The male guardian of Pip in \i Great Expectations\i0  with last name Gargery.  The soon to be dead Mr. Gillis doomed to fall in with Norma Desmond in \i Sunset Boulevard\i0 .  And FTP a man found in Christmas in Faulkner's \i Light in August\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Joe\ulnone ; do not accept "Joseph"\f1\par
\par
16.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Baden-Powell tells his reader to "go and see for himself the working of what [Great Britain] is pleased to call its brain" in listing the reasons for an expedition to it in \i The Downfall of Prempeh\i0 .  It saw promulgation of the Odwira under Osei Bonsu and Opoku Ware's campaign against the Dagomba.  Founded by matrilineal Akan people, it conquered Denkyira under Osei Tutu, who was helped by sorcerer Okomfo Anokye, the conjurer of its most famous legend.  Warring with the British over the Fante of Gold Coast Colony, it was defeated by Sir Garnet Wolseley, who captured Kumasi.  FTP name this Ghanan empire of the Golden Stool sharing its name with a hip-hop singer.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Ashanti\ulnone ; accept "Kumasi" before it is mentioned\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 17.\par
\f0 Carl Cantrel gave a "scientific" account of God's support of this prophet, claiming that He interfered with electromagnetic waves produced by brains of Syrian soldiers so that they can't see God's army.  After he cured Naaman, an Aramaean commander, of leprosy by having him wash 7 times in the Jordan, his servant Gehazi asked Naaman for a gift, but is left with white diseased skin.  He directed his follower to Ramoth-gilead with a flask of oil to anoint the son of Jehoshaphat, Jehu.  The prophecy of his master was fulfilled when Jehu had Jezebel tossed out the window.  FTP name this prophet who saw his master ascend to heaven in a chariot, a disciple of Elijah.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Elisha\ulnone\par
\f1\par
18.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 It has been used to synthesize juvenile hormone and its prerequisite brain hormone.  When sterics dominate electronics, as in hydroboration-oxidation, the anti version of this reaction is observed as the OH group ends up at the less substituted carbon.  Oxymercuration-demercuration is a carbocation-rearrangement-proof type of this reaction that makes alcohol in water and ether in alcohol from an alkene.  Additions of halogens and hydrogen halides to alkenes are examples of, FTP this regioselective electrophilic addition reaction following the rule that the nucleophile ends up at the most substituted carbon, named for a Russian chemist.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Markovnikov\ulnone  addition; accept "electrophilic addition" before it is mentioned\par
\f1\par
\pard 19.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 In one episode, the brain of a lesbian is transplanted into a man who works for a telephone company, and premature ejaculation in hippopotamus is studied by a man who got kicked out of Masters and Johnson for building a 400 feet diaphragm.  One of the sperm worries that it may be a homosexual encounter in the final episode, and hopes that he won't end up in the ceiling if his owner Sidney is masturbating.  Gene Wilder plays a doctor who gives up his wife and profession to be with the Armenian sheep Daisy, and Jack Barry hosts a show called \i What's My Perversion?\i0   FTP seven questions about a taboo topic are answered by this Woody Allen film with a comprehensive title.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex\ulnone  But Were Afraid to Ask\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\i0\par
20.\par
In a court room speech, he notes that "there's no such thing as a collective brain."  His redemption came when Roger Enright provided Cortlandt, and he could put the principles of his mentor Henry Cameron back into use.  Working secretly for Peter Keating, this graduate of Stanton Tech is opposed by Ellsworth Toohey, but the support of Gail Wynand's newspaper helped set him free even though he proceeded to destroy his own creation because it was interfered with.  Based on Frank Lloyd Wright, FTP name this Ayn Rand character from \i The Fountainhead\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Howard \ul Roark\ulnone\par
\f1\par
21.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The clown in this play will never "believe a madman till [he sees] his brains," but brings the prisoner light, paper, and ink so that he may write to his mistress, after posing as Curate Topas.  Fabian claims that "if this were play'd upon a stage now, I could condemn it as an improbable fiction," commenting on the audacity of one who took Maria's letter as written by Olivia, falling into a trap designed by Sir Toby Belch.  FTP name this Shakespeare play starring Malvolio and Feste, about Sebastian and his sister Viola, who willingly dresses up as a boy to serve Duke Orsino.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Twelfth Night\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i What You Will\ulnone\i0\par
\f1\par
22.\par
\f0 In grim tribute to his military brainpower, William T. Sherman once said that there would never be peace in western Tennessee until he was dead.  As a subordinate to Braxton Bragg at Chickamauga, he was infuriated by Bragg's refusal to press his advantage with Rosecrans' Union army in retreat, and was victorious at Brices Cross Roads and Fort Pillow, where black soldiers were massacred.  Described by Bruce Catton as the best cavalry leader in the war, he strategized to "git thar fust with the most men."  FTP name this Confederate general who later served as the first Grand Wizard of the KKK.\par
\tab Answer: Nathan Bedford \ul Forrest\ulnone\par
\par
23.\par
It isn't Mr. Data's positronic brain, but it represented an equally important advance in technology.  It isn't the Millennium Dome, though it was designed by a guy named Norman--Max Norman.  It isn't the Enola Gay, but it did work in tandem with a device nicknamed "The Bomb" to advance the Allied cause in the World War II.  FTP name this device used by the codebreakers at Bletchley Park to decipher Nazi transmissions, a claimant to the title of the first electronic computer, which, although made in part of steel, is not a Russian mutant named Piotr Rasputin, nor is it located in Rhodes.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Colossus\ulnone\par
\par
24.\par
Although similar ideas had floated around for 200 years, it has been regarded as the brainchild of an ex-mayor of Belo Horizonte.  Its shape is variously described as that of a crucifix, a drawn bow and arrow, a bird in flight, or an airplane, and it was proposed by Juscelino Kubitschek.  Its public buildings include the bowl-shaped Chamber of Deputies and the crown-like underground Metropolitan Cathedral surrounded by statues of 4 evangelists.  Planned by Lucio Costa and designed by Oscar Niemeyer to develop the interior and avoid overcrowding of Rio de Janeiro, FTP name this capital of Brazil.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Brasilia\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\b Cal Berkeley B bonuses\b0 .\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 01.\par
References to the brain in poetry from around the world.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In a poem addressed to Napoleon, this Frenchman writes "A\f1 bove all others, everywhere I see / His image cold or burning! / My brain it thrills, and oftentime sets free / The thoughts within me yearning."  The poem is from \i Les Orientales\i0 .\f0\par
\tab Answer: Victor Marie \ul Hugo\ulnone\par
(10)  In writing to this object, Anne Bradstreet pens "thou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain, / Who after birth didst by my side remain, / Till snatched from thence by friends, less wise than true, / Who thee abroad, exposed to public view."\par
\tab Answer: "The Author to Her \ul Book\ulnone "\par
(10)  Illustrated by the comment following it that "shallow draughts intoxicate the brain," so that we must "drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring," name this famous line by Alexander Pope from \i An Essay on Criticism\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: "A \ul little learning is a dangerous thing\ulnone "\par
\pard\f1\par
02.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 He calls the brain the female to his soul, and his soul the father, which together beget "a generation of still-breeding thoughts," which "people this little world," while contemplating his fate at Pomfret castle, according to Shakespeare.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this son of Edward the Black Prince who ruled England beginning 1377 under the care of his uncle John of Gaunt, until deposed by Henry Bolingbroke.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Richard II\ulnone\par
(10)  Upset over the poll tax, this ex-soldier led an rebellion against Richard II in 1381 that was struck down when he was killed by William Walworth during negotiations.\par
\tab Answer: Wat \ul Tyler\ulnone\par
(10)  This duke of Gloucester and uncle led the lords appellant against Richard II, but was imprisoned and, according to Bolingbroke, was killed by Thomas Mowbray.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Thomas of \ul Woodstock\par
\ulnone\f1\par
03.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Identify these works of philosophy.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Claiming that the mind endures and develops in the material brain, this Henri Bergson book develops the notion of elan vital, the nondeterministic life force.\par
\tab Answer: \i L'\ul evolution creatrice\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Creative Evolution\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Paragraph 7 of this Leibniz work notes that although brains might be influenced by sensation, souls are not, because they are one of the titular windowless concepts.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Monadologia\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Monadology\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Asking women not to commit "adultery of the brain," this Virginia Woolf essay notes that since it is wrong for women to sell their bodies without love, they shouldn't sell their brains to their husbands without love of their creative life.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Three Guineas\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
04.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 In Ingmar Bergman's \i Hour of the Wolf\i0 , Johan is indulged by the von Merkens to watch a performance of this opera in pantomine, with the Bird Man as Papageno.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Based on Liebeskind's "Lulu," name this opera by Mozart with a libretto by Emanuel Schikaneder that references a Temple of Light and a freemasonry ceremony.\par
\tab Answer: \i Die \ul Zauberflote\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Magic Flute\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Although she starts Tamino on his quest, this character from \i Die Zauberflote\i0  turns out to be the evil antagonist of Sarastro, and sings the revenge song in act 2.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Queen of the Night\ulnone ; or \ul Konigin der Nacht\ulnone ; or \ul Astrofiammante\ulnone\par
(10)  The 3 spirits sing of this character that "madness rages in her brain, suicide is written on her forehead," when she is full of woe during her lover Tamino's trial, in which he would not speak to her.  Name this daughter of the Queen of the Night.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Pamina\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
05.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 In a letter addressed to Mistress Page, he calls himself "thine own true knight, by day or night, or any kind of light, with all his might, for thee to fight."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Also sending the identical letter to Mistress Ford, name this Shakespearean character who "woos both high and low, both rich and poor, both young and old."\par
\tab Answer: Sir John \ul Falstaff\ulnone\par
(10)  Falstaff is carried in a laundery basket to Datchet Lane and dumped into the Thames while seducing Mistress Ford in this play by Shakespeare.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Merry Wives of Windsor\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The 2nd time Falstaff is caught with Mrs. Ford, he escapes by putting on the dress of this fat witch, the aunt of Ford's maid, then is chased by Ford and beaten "\f1 into all the colours of the rainbow."\f0\par
\tab Answer: witch of \ul Brainford\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
06.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following about getting pretty pictures of your brain.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This diagnostic technique relies on nuclear magnetic resonance to record the relaxation of protons when radio waves are stopped, producing 3D brain maps.\par
\tab Answer: \ul m\ulnone agnetic \ul r\ulnone esonance \ul i\ulnone maging\par
(10)  This compound is the standard against which peaks of protons of a molecule in an NMR spectrum are measured, because its 12 equivalent hydrogens are well shielded.\par
\tab Answer: \ul t\ulnone etra\ul m\ulnone ethyl\ul s\ulnone ilane; ironically, also the abbreviation for "transcranial magnetic stimulation," a way to temporarily knock out localized brain function\par
(10)  Dependent on temperature and hydrogen-bonding, especially in alcohols and thiols, this value, measured in parts per million, is defined as the distance of peak from tetramethylsilane in hertz over spectrometer frequency in megahertz.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul chemical shift\par
\ulnone\f1\par
07.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following involving the brain, sort of.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This husband of Procris accidently killed his wife by throwing Artemis's spear into the bush.  He is then seduced by goddess of dawn Eos, and has a son Phosphorus.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Cephalus\ulnone\par
(10)  According to Plutarch, this horse of Alexander was tamed when his head was turned toward the sun to avoid his own shadow.  He was killed at Hydaspes river.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Bucephalus\ulnone\par
(10)  This Platonic dialogue takes place in the house of the rich aristocrat Cephalus.  In it, Thrasymachus argues against Socrates that might is right, and justice favors the strong.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Republic\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\f1\par
08.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The brain and Henry Adams: a winning combination.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Like "cold and heat, town and country, force and freedom, [and two unbalanced] lobes of the brain," Adams thought that this symbol of power to whom stately monuments of superstition were built was to religion what the Dynamo was to science.\par
\tab Answer: the \ul Virgin\ulnone\par
(10)  The "mysterious mechanism of gray matter in the brain" expressed its motives in modes such as Gothic architecture, the prime example of which is this asymmetric cathedral, which forms the title of an Adams book along with Mont-Saint-Michel.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Chartres\ulnone\par
(10)  In the preface to \i The Education\i0 , Adams calls this man's brain a thinking, religious one, even though his \i Confessions\i0  showed him to be "contemptible and vile."\par
\tab Answer: Jean-Jacques \ul Rousseau\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
09.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Related stuff.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In Scientology, they are images associated with past moments of pain that provoke irrational behavior.  A thetan can be rid of them by consulting an auditor.\par
\tab Answer: \ul engram\ulnone s\par
(10)  In chemistry, it is the law stating that the ratio of product and reactant concentrations in a reaction remains the same, defined as the equilibrium constant.\par
\tab Answer: law of \ul mass action\ulnone\par
(10)  This American psychologist attempted to localize memory in the brain, as described in \i In Search of the Engram\i0 , and found that task performance declines relative to amount of cortex destroyed, dubbed the principle of mass action.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Karl \ul Lashley\ulnone\par
\f1\par
10.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 He writes "who owns these questionable brains? \i Death\i0 ." then "but who is stronger than death? \i Me Evidently\i0 . Pass, Crow." in his poem "Examination at the Womb-Door."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Writing about pikes, rivers, and hawks in his \i Luperal\i0 , \i Wodwo\i0 , \i Under the North Star\i0 , and \i What Is the Truth?\i0 , name this once poet laureate of England.\par
\tab Answer: Ted \ul Hughes\ulnone\par
(10)  Poems in Hughes's \i Birthday Letters\i0  dealt primarily with this wife of his, who committed suicide in 1963 after writing "Daddy" and "Ariel."\par
\tab Answer: Sylvia \ul Plath\ulnone\par
(10)  This titular survivor of WWI is "under the high wood" and "in the Atlantic," caressing "his own skull, over and over."  Name this man still telling tales of big Germans with a thirst for anaesthetics buried hugger-mugger inside Hughes's shirt.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Walt\ulnone "\par
\pard\f1\par
11.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Stuff about computational modeling of visual processing in the brain.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This is the process of decomposing an image into distinct meaningful regions, for example separating the figure from ground.  This is usually done by clustering.\par
\tab Answer: \ul segmentation\ulnone\par
(10)  Classification of images in pattern recognition can be accomplished by using one of these models of nerve cells and their connectivity.  A generalization of perceptrons, they consist of an activation function operating on weighted inputs.\par
\tab Answer: artificial \ul neural net\ulnone works\par
(10)  Tracking the motion of a figure in a image sequence can be done by implementing this filtering algorithm that assumes Gaussian noise and linear Gaussian transitions.  Tracking a non-Gaussian stochastic process requires a particle filter instead.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Kalman\ulnone  filter\par
\f1\par
12.\par
\f0 Answer the following questions about the reign of Aurangzeb.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Aurangzeb's reign began in 1658 after he defeated three of his brothers, executed two, and imprisoned his father.  Name that father, builder of the Taj Mahal.\par
\tab Answer: Shah \ul Jahan\ulnone\par
(10)  In a triumph for brainless piety, Aurangzeb attempted to force the tenets of Islam on the Hindu majority by reinstituting this tax on non-Muslims, which had been abolished by his great-grandfather Akbar.\par
\tab Answer: \ul jizya\ulnone\par
(10)  Aurangzeb's repressive measures led to the rebellion of these Hindu warriors of central India, which would plague the remainder of his reign and helped bring about the breakup of the Mughal empire after his death.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Maratha\ulnone s\par
\f1\par
13.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Identify these modern European artists.  FTPE.\par
(10)  He had a condition called synaesthesia, in which areas of the brain connected to visual processing become activated in response to auditory stimuli, which explains his \i Improvisations\i0  and \i Compositions\i0 .  Name this Russian abstract expressionist.\par
\tab Answer: Wassily \ul Kandinsky\ulnone\par
(10)  This compulsive gambler followed Picasso's method of passing form "directly from the eye to the stomach without going through the brain," as in \i Figure with Meat\i0  and other expressionist paintings depicting Pope Innocent X in mutilated forms.\par
\tab Answer: Francis \ul Bacon\ulnone\par
(10)  He created a rotating cylindrical hologram of Alice Cooper's brain and rendered flamingos and jungle vines inside Mae West's brain in a room in his art palace.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Salvador \ul Dali\par
\ulnone\f1\par
14.\par
\f0 Name these places in Massachusetts.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This island in Dukes County lies south across from Cape Cod and west of Nantucket, serving as a summer resort and a whaling industry.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Martha's Vineyard\ulnone\par
(10)  Site of the Adams Mansion and birthplace of John Hancock, this Norfolk city south of Boston is known for shipbuilding and named for a colonial legislator.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Quincy\ulnone\par
(10)  Originally called Monoticut, a Native American term for "abundance," it was separated from its northern neighbor Quincy in 1792.  Name this town on the Weymouth Fore river, a Boston suburb.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Braintree\par
\ulnone\f1\par
15.\par
\f0 In the section on "research," the author writes "the substance composing the brain and marrow was so subject to disintegration, there was no hope whatever of determining its structure," and answers questions about the optic thalamus, the pons, and cortex activity during slumber with the nonmystical character of life.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this novel by Thomas Mann taking place at the Berghof sanatorium.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tab Answer: \i Der \ul Zauberberg\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Magic Mountain\ulnone\i0\par
\pard (10)  Asking "what is life?" and concluding that "the birth of the organic out of the inorganic" was "nothing but the next step on the reckless path of the spirit dishonoured," this hero of \i The Magic Mountain\i0  falls in love with Claudia Chauchat.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Hans Castorp\ulnone ; accept either name\par
(10)  In the "dance of death" section, Hans and Joachim takes this consumptive, undersized girl to the Bioscope Theatre, which was repugnant to "critic" Settembrini.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Karen Karstedt\ulnone ; accept either name\par
\f1\par
16.\par
\f0 Fluid mechanics.  FTPE.\par
(10)  At above the value of 1, supersonic flight occurs, causing a sharp compression.  Name this ratio of flow velocity to the velocity of sound in the medium.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Mach\ulnone  number\par
(10)  This theorem for forming dimensionless groups of variables derives its name from the n-ary multiplication symbol used to denote the fact that the dimensionless numbers are the product of the original variables raised to some power.\par
\tab Answer: Buckingham \ul pi\ulnone  theorem\par
(10)  This kind of flow is a laminar flow driven by a pressure gradient, the sort that you would find in veins and arteries in the brain.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Poiseuille\ulnone  flow\par
\f1\par
17.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Why exercising is overrated: name these people who died playing sports.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This former Carolina Panther lineman died from a brain injury suffered while making a tackle for the Los Angeles Avengers during an Areana Football League game this month when his head was hit by a leg of a New York Dragons runningback.\par
\tab Answer: Al \ul Lucas\ulnone\par
(10)  Leading to outlaw of the spitball, this popular Cleveland Indians shortstop and ironically, all time leader in sacrifice hits, died after being hit in the head with a pitch from Yankees submariner Carl Mays in 1920.\par
\tab Answer: Ray \ul Chapman\ulnone\par
(10)  This 7-time NASCAR Winston Cup champion died instantly after crashing his Chevy  on the final lap of the 2001 Daytona 500.\par
\tab Answer: Dale \ul Earnhardt\ulnone\par
\pard\f1\par
18.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Identify these colorful regions of the brain.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This inner region of the cerebral cortex gets its color from the lipid content of myelin covering the axons.  This is in contrast to the gray exterior of the cortex, which is dominated by cell bodies.\par
\tab Answer: \ul white matter\ulnone\par
(10)  This component of the basal ganglia initiates motor movements.  Patients with Parkinson's disease show progressive degeneration of dopamine-containing cells in this area that projects to the striatum.\par
\tab Answer: \ul substantia nigra\ulnone\par
(10)  This nucleus of the midbrain communicates with motor neurons in the spinal cord.  It gets its name from its color in freshly dissected tissue.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul red\ulnone  nucleus\par
\f1\par
19.\par
\f0 Name these discoverers of hominine fossils.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In the Hadar Valley of Afar at NE Ethiopia, this American paleontologist found that bipedalism can be associated with small brains by digging up an \i Australopithecus afarensis\i0  "First Family" and a particulary famous skeleton named Lucy.\par
\tab Answer: Donald \ul Johanson\ulnone\par
(10)  Student of Grafton Elliot Smith, he collaborated with Robert Broom and found the 1st australopithecine specimen at a quarry in Taung, South Africa, which he named \i Australopithecus africanus\i0 , a larger-skulled descendant of \i A. afarensis\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Raymond \ul Dart\ulnone\par
(10)  This amateur naturalist supposedly "discovered" an \i Eoanthropus\i0  fossil called Piltdown Man that is later found to have a human cranium and an ape jawbone.\par
\tab Answer: Charles \ul Dawson\ulnone\par
\f1\par
20.\par
\f0 Name these military masterminds of the Second World War.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This Russian general successfully conducted the defenses of Moscow, Leningrad, and Stalingrad, and stayed ahead of Konev in the Russian drive to Berlin.\par
\tab Answer: Marshal Georgy Konstantinovich \ul Zhukov\ulnone\par
(10)  Instead of going through Belgium, this German commander devised the "Sickle Stroke" plan to drive armored columns through the Ardennes, bypassing the Maginot Line and leading to the precipitous fall of France in 1940.\par
\tab Answer: Field Marshal Erich von \ul Manstein\ulnone\par
(10)  This commander of the RAF led with his brain and not his heart when he denied air support to the doomed French army in 1940, but his careful husbanding of his limited fighter resources probably won the Battle of Britain.\par
\tab Answer: Air Chief Marshal Sir Hugh \ul Dowding\ulnone\par
\f1\par
21.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these little women in a novel by Louisa May Alcott.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The piano player of the family, she succumbs to scarlett fever while with the Hummels, and ends up dying young, though her shyness doesn't show at the end.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Beth\ulnone ; or \ul Elizabeth\ulnone  March\par
(10)  The oldest of the sisters, she wanted to delay a marriage to pennyless tutor John Brooke, but she defended him so valiantly against Aunt March that she married.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Meg\ulnone ; or \ul Margaret\ulnone  March\par
(10)  She notes "it will do my brain good to have that mop taken off," when selling her hair to pay for Marmee's trip to Washington to visit dad.  She's the tomboy.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Jo\ulnone ; or \ul Josephine\ulnone  March\par
\pard\par
22.\par
Answer the following about a professor of Christian-Social Thinking at Vrije Universiteit.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this European leader and Christian-Democrat who has been nicknamed "Harry Potter" for his alleged resemblance to the Rowling character.\par
\tab Answer: Jan Peter \ul Balkenende\ulnone\par
(10)  Jan Peter Balkenende is the prime minister of this European country.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Netherlands\ulnone\par
(10)  Balkenende and his center-right party won the prime ministership in elections held just nine days after the assassination of this charismatic right-winger by a deranged animal-rights activist.  His dead brain received 17% of the vote in 2002.\par
\tab Answer: Pim \ul Fortuyn\ulnone\par
\par
23.\par
Yangnao, or sheep's brain paper, was 1st made during the reign of Xuande of this dynasty, by coating over Ciqing paper to protect it from insects.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this dynasty founded by Zhu Yuanzhang after the Red Turban rebellion.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Ming\ulnone\par
(10)  From the reigns of Zhu Di to Zhu Zhanji, this eunuch admiral led seven naval expeditions that explored and carried out trade throughout Asia and the Indian Ocean.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Zheng\ulnone  He\par
(10)  According to a controversial book written by former British navy officer Gavin Menzies, Zheng He was supposed to have discovered the Americas in what year?\par
\tab Answer: \ul 1421\par
\ulnone\par
24.\par
Answer the following about an application of nuclear physics.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Manufacturing of nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors both use this element, which was discovered by Glenn T. Seaborg and has a 239 isotope.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Plutonium\ulnone\par
(10)  Nuclear weapons can also be manufactured by this process used by Pakistan and North Korea.  A gas of its namesake with hexaflouride is pumped against pored barriers to separate out the 238 isotope, thus augmenting the desired isotope 235.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Uranium enrichment\ulnone ; accept equivalents\par
(10)  Modeled on circulation of the brain, this type of reactor, coming in pressurized and boiling types, are preferred by arms control experts, so as to prevent non-nuclear weapons states from mastering the fuel cycle.\par
\tab Answer: \ul light water\ulnone  reactor\par
\par
}
 