{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 OnTheCrum-2005\par
Questions by Cal Berkeley (Ray Luo, Andrew Lim).\par
\par
literature 5/5\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Lebeziatnikov prevented Pyotr Petrovitch Luzhin from framing a theft on Sofya Semyonovna by declaring that he had seen him slip the money into Sonia's pocket.  Her mother Katerina Ivanovna gets kicked out by the landlady and goes through the streets performing with her children.  Her death parallels that of her husband Marmelodov, who was helped financially by the main character, whose sister Avdotya Romanovna was to marry Luzhin, but instead, turns to the good-hearted Razumihin, who plans to move the new family to Siberia so they can visit her brother and Sonia.  FTP name this Dostoevsky novel in which Roskolnikov kills a pawn broker with an axe.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Crime and Punishment\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar She sings about the phony world, and believes that a line or street can be straight, but not the heart of a human being.  She doesn't want realism, but magic, and convinces herself that "physical beauty is a transitory possession."  She wears a Rhinestone tiara and is afraid of flowers for the dead.  Her life in Oriole includes staying at Tarantula Arms, not Flamingo Hotel, and the suicide of her boy husband Allan Grey.  Believing that she has been invited by Shep Huntleigh, she finally leaves her sister Stella for the insane asylum.  With a name meaning "white woods," FTP name this ex-school teacher and Southern belle in \i A Streetcar Named Desire\i0 .\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Blanche\ulnone\b0  DuBois\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He asked "why don't people leave off being lovable ... and be a bit elemental instead?"  Author of the poems "Trees in the Garden," "The English Are So Nice!," and "Piano," he wrote about pomegranate flowers in Andraitx and "Bavarian Gentians" at Michaelmas.  Experiences in Southwest US resulted in \i Birds, Beasts and Flowers\i0 , while \i Look! We Have Come Through\i0  are poems about his wife Frieda Weekley, who left her husband to run away with him.  FTP name this English writer whose collection \i Pansies\i0  was banned for immorality, as were the songs sung by his Lady Chatterley.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: (poetry of) David Herbert \ul\b Lawrence\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar When Brown tries to play word association with the protagonist of this work, he pairs boy with girl, crumpets with car, and dead with father.  After going to Skeggway with Mike, Gladys, and Audrey using his mom's money, the protagonist robs a bakery instead of working, and gets sent to Borstal Ruxton Tower, where he beats Stacy in practice and becomes the new favorite of the school governor.  Passing by Gunthorpe of Ranley school in the final stretch, Smith recalls his oppression by the establishment, and loses the cross country race on purpose.  FTP name this story by Alan Sillitoe.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: "The \ul\b Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner\ulnone\b0 "\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He was thrown out of office by the Whig administration amidst a furious newspaper controversy.  That same year, his mother died and he began writing his greatest work, with the thoughts of revenge on the Salem Whigs in mind.  Near the end of his life, he began four romances, overlapping attempts to grapple with the search for a elixir of life and the american claimant to an English estate.  Buried in Sleepy Hollow at Concord, he collected his mythology stories in \i The Tanglewood Tales\i0 .  FTP name this writer who made fun of the Whigs in the \i Custom House\i0  intro to his \i The Scarlet Letter\i0 .\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: Nathaniel \ul\b Hawthorne\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Given some family names, identify the Jane Austen novel in which they appear.  FFPE.\par
(5)  Middleton, Ferrars, Dashwood.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Sense and Sensibility\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(5)  Lucas, Bingley, Bennet.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Pride and Prejudice\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(5)  Crawford, Bertram, Price.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Mansfield Park\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(5)  Cole, Knightley, Woodhouse.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Emma\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(5)  Thorpe, Tilney, Morland.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Northanger Abbey\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(5)  Croft, Musgrove, Elliot.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Persuasion\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He notes that "a woman sometime scorns what best contents her," and "that man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man, if with his tongue he cannot win a woman."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this Shakespearean character who inadvertently reveals his plot to elope with the daughter of the Duke of Milan--Silvia--via a ladder, and is thus banished to the Mantuan forest until one day catching his friend Proteus trying to hit on Silvia.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Valentine\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Valentine and Proteus are the titular people in this Shakespeare play.\par
\tab ANSWER: \i The \ul\b Two Gentlemen of Verona\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  This servant to Valentine notes that Silvia "herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover," interpreting Silvia's returning Valentine's letter.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Speed\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Poems by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow from quotations.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Prefaced by a misquotation of Crashaw and divided into 9 sections, this psalm begins "tell me not, in mournful numbers," that the titular subject "is but an empty dream."  We are called to act and to leave behind "footsteps on the sands of time."\par
\tab ANSWER: "A Psalm of \ul\b Life\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  Occuring "on the reef of Norman's Woe," the titular incident was the result of a haughty skipper who ignored the hurricane warning, and ended up dead along with his little daughter, gored by the cruel rocks "like the horns of an angry bull."\par
\tab ANSWER: "The \ul\b Wreck of the Hesperus\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  "His hair is crisp, and black, and long," and "he owes not any man."  He hears his daughter singing in the choir and wipes a tear away with his rough hand.  This titular man's "sounding anvil shaped each burning deed and thought."\par
\tab ANSWER: "The \ul\b Village Blacksmith\ulnone\b0 "\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar She married to leave her poverty-stricken home after her 16th birthday, but soon divorced and began a life of free-lancing in Dallas, Denver, NY, and Mexico, an early history remarkably similar to that of her character Miranda Gay in \i Old Mortality\i0  and \i Pale Horse, Pale Rider\i0 , except for Miranda's aristocratic southern background.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this author of \i Hacienda\i0  and \i Noon Wine\i0  who won the 1966 Pulitzer for her \i Collected Stories\i0 .\par
\tab ANSWER: Katherine Anne \ul\b Porter\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Published in \i Hound and Horn\i0 , this 1929 story by Porter about Laura, an English teacher pursued by the revolutionary Braggioni during the Mexican Revolution, made her famous.\par
\tab ANSWER: "\ul\b Flowering Judas\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  Taking its title from Sebastian Brant's \i Das Narrenschiff\i0 , this 1962 novel by Porter is an account of the voyage of the German ship \i Vera\i0  from Veracruz to Bremerhaven that stands for "this world on its voyage to eternity."\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Ship of Fools\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these Scandinavian Nobel prize winners in literature.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Author of \i The Ring of the Lowenskolds\i0 , this Swedish school teacher wrote \i The Story of Gosta Berling\i0 , \i Jerusalem\i0 , \i Trolls and Men\i0 , and the Nils children's stories.\par
\tab ANSWER: Selma \ul\b Lagerlof\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  A Nazi collaborator, this Norwegian journalist wrote on \i Hunger\i0 , \i Children of the Age\i0 , \i Vagabonds\i0 , and on peasant life in \i Growth of the Soil\i0 .\par
\tab ANSWER: Knut \ul\b Hamsun\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Writer of early romances like \i Mrs. Martha Oulie\i0  and \i Jenny\i0 , this Norwegian clerk became a Catholic and wrote medieval historical novels like \i Kristin Lavransdatter\i0 .\par
\tab ANSWER: Sigrid \ul\b Undset\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
science 5/5\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar During this period, trees that dominated coal-forming forests were replaced by cycadeoids, cycads, ginkgos, and conifers.  Gymnosperms and seed ferns became dominant and marine invertebrate lineages became diverse.  As Pangaea began separating into individual continents, glaciers melted and inland seas were formed.  The Earth's biota became increasingly provincialized as the first mammals appeared.  Reptiles radiated, eventually giving rise to crocodilians, birds, and early dinosaurs.  FTP name this geological period lasting from 245 to 195 million years ago, the first period of the Mesozoic era, before Jurassic.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Triassic\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Facilitated by SR protein recognition of ESE, the trans type of this process occurs in trypanosomes and euglenoids.  Maturases are needed in vivo for it to take place in stem-looped mitochondrial and chloroplastic group II introns, which are similar in structure to snRNAs.  Followed by exosome debranching and hydrolysis of its byproduct and nuclear cap-binding for cytoplasmic export, it is repressed by Sx1 in \i Drosophila\i0  sexual differentiation and enhanced by Tra.  Taking place with editing, it allows alternative expression of different proteins from a single gene.  Removing introns from the RNA transcript, FTP name this process that joins adjacent exons together.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: RNA \ul\b splicing\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar This effect can be eliminated in alcohols by fast proton exchange, and in haloalkanes by rapid magnetic equilibration.  Either geminal or vicinal, its ratios are given by Pascal's triangle under first order conditions, but if nonequivalent neighbors are involved, the sequential N+1 rule is applied to find the number of peaks.  When its coupling constant is comparable to the frequency difference, higher field strength is needed to improve resolution.  Caused by local magnetic fields of neighboring atoms, FTP name this phenomenon observed in NMR in which a peak in the spectrum splits up.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b spin-spin\ulnone\b0  splitting (coupling); prompt on NMR before it is mentioned\par
\par
Its Van Allen belts were found by Frank Drake and its diameter was measured by James Bradley.  Its atmosphere contains gaseous krypton and xenon in greater amounts than expected, and it rotates in only 10 hours.  Containing a layer of compressed hydrogen around a solid core that acts like metals, it harbors the strongest radio waves in the solar system and may have formed from comet material.  Voyager discovered a ring surrounding this planet, whose largest moon leaks hydrogen.  Pulling on the volcanic Io, FTP name this planet containing the moons Europa and Ganymede as seen by Galileo.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Jupiter\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Although some of them deteriorate if left undisturbed for long enough, others persist indefinitely; one created by Michael Faraday in 1857 is still in its original form.  In some cases, their degeneration can be hastened by adding salts in a process called flocculation.  They can be visualized using a dark-field microscope, and cannot be purified by dialysis.  Examples include the gemstone opal, as well as smoke, paint, aerosols, mayonnaise and milk.  FTP name these light-scattering suspensions of a dispersed substance in some background medium.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b colloid\ulnone\b0 s; or \ul\b colloidal suspension\ulnone\b0 s\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify these cell surface junctions FTPE.\par
(10)  They limit passage of materials from the lumen via the apical region through the intercellular space of the basolateral regions by linking adjacent epithelial cells in a protein meshwork, restricting what enters the body.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b tight\ulnone\b0  junctions\par
(10)  Keratin intermediate fibers in the cytoplasm are attached to a plaque on the surface of the plasma membrane that is stretched by cell adhesion proteins binding to the next cell's plaque, providing mechanical stability to epithelial tissues.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b desmosome\ulnone\b0 s\par
(10)  Made up of connexon protein channels, they facilitate intercell communication by passing through certain small molecules and ions.  In some nerve cells they allow the direct passage of an electric signal.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b gap\ulnone\b0  junctions\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these two compounds containing phosphate groups, and one that doesn't.  FTPE.\par
(10)  It can lose its phosphate group to form a pyruvate with both enol and keto forms, giving a huge release in energy.  It occurs in the penultimate step of glycolysis and as an acceptor of CO_2 in oxaloacetate formation in the C4 cycle.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b p\ulnone\b0 hospho\ul\b e\ulnone\b0 nol\ul\b p\ulnone\b0 yruvate (PEP)\par
(10)  It loses 1 of 2 anhydride-bound phosphates to be left with resonance-stabilized carboxylate.  It binds to hemoglobin to decrease O_2 affinity at high altitudes.\par
\tab ANSWER: 1,3-\ul\b b\ulnone\b0 is\ul\b p\ulnone\b0 hospho\ul\b g\ulnone\b0 lycerate (BPG)\par
(10)  It doesn't have phosphates in an oxygen ester linkage, but does contain instead a thioester linkage of a CH_3 C double bond O group to a cofactor built from ADP, mercaptoethylamine, and pantothenic acid.  It is the entry point for the Krebs Cycle.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b acetyl\ulnone\b0  \ul\b co\ulnone\b0 enzyme \ul\b A\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In competition with SN1, this type of reaction abstracts a proton from an adjacent carbon on the carbocation, rehybridizing it from sp^3 to sp^2, forming a pi bond with the left-over electron pair.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Not dependent on leaving-group ability, name this two-step mechanism taking place in weakly nucleophilic polar media in secondary haloalkanes and in dilute base solutions in tertiary haloalkanes, that results in alkenes.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b unimolecular elimination\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b E1\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  In the presence of strong bases, the rate of alkene formation depends on both the halide and the base.  Competing with SN2, name this one-step, concerted mechanism favored with sterically hindered basic nucleophiles on branched haloalkanes.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b bimolecular elimination\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b E2\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  With E2 in an unhindered base, this rule states that the double bond forms between the carbon containing the leaving group and the most highly substituted adjacent carbon bearing a hydrogen, forming a thermodynamically more stable product.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Saytzev\ulnone\b0  rule; or \ul\b Zaitsev\ulnone\b0  rule\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify the following concepts from linear algebra.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Given a vector y and an unit vector u, this is the component of y in the direction of u.  Each y in the span of u_1 to u_k can be decomposed into the sum of k of these onto one-dimensional subspaces that are mutually perpendicular.\par
\tab ANSWER: orthogonal \ul\b projection\ulnone\b0  (of y onto u)\par
(10)  Given a basis for a subspace of Rn, this algorithm produces an orthogonal basis by repeatedly subracting off projections of each basis vectors onto previous basis vectors in the list.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Gram-Schmidt\ulnone\b0  process\par
(10)  Suppose Ax = b has no solution.  Let v be the projection of b onto the column space of A, then the vector x' that solves Ax' = v is known as this type of solution, satisfying: ||b - Ax'|| <= ||b - Ax||, as applied in linear statistical regression.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b least-square\ulnone\b0  solution\par
\par
Quark, that devious Ferengi bartender, is...  Oh, sorry, wrong quark.  Given an elementary particle, list its constituent quarks all-or-nothing.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Proton.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b up\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b up\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b down\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Pi-plus.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b up\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b anti-down\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Omega-minus.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b strange\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b strange\ulnone\b0 , \ul\b strange\ulnone\b0\par
\par
history 5/5\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Its last emperor Xiandi abdicated to a son of his chief minister.  Formed by a minor official who declared himself Gaozu, it saw the conquest of the Xiongnu, Ferghana, and Annam early, and the burning of its new capital by Dong Zhou late.  The clan of Jingdi rebelled against the Xin interregnum, bringing Guangwudi to the throne after a move to Luoyang.  Established by Liu Bang at Chang'an following the collapse of Qin, it was reigned notably by Wudi, who installed civil service.  Interrupted by Wang Mang and the Yellow Turban revolt, FTP name this Chinese dynasty of 206 BC to 200 AD.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Han\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Felix Grundy taught him law and Ephraim McDowell removed his gallstones.  Much abused while Speaker of the House, he became governor of Tennessee but lost his next two election campaigns.  His presidency invoked the Monroe Doctrine for Yucatan independence, passed the Independent Treasury Act, and settled with Lord Aberdeen of Britain on 49th parallel boundary of Oregon.  Failure of support for annexation of Texas by Martin Van Buren led to his nomination as the dark-horse candidate.  With vice president George Mifflin Dallas, FTP name this man succeeded by Zachary Taylor, the president during the Mexican-American War.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: James Knox \ul\b Polk\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar While he was at Switzerland, his widowed lover Giuditta Sidoli returned to Italy to rejoin her children.  He published "On the Duties of Man" in the newspaper \i Apostolato popolare\i0  and founded People's International League while at England.  Earlier, he was arrested at Savona, exiled to Marseille, and wrote open letters to Charles Albert and Pius IX.  He served briefly under Garibaldi and founded Friends of Italy, sending Felice Orsini to raise a revolt in Carrara.  Reviled by Cavour, FTP name this leader of \i Thought and Action\i0  and Young Italy, the champion of Risorgimento.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: Giuseppe \ul\b Mazzini\b0\par
\ulnone\par
It was precipitated by the death of Francois duke of Anjou, because of implications of his passing for the succession to the French crown, and by the Treaty of Nemours, which sought to rectify the problem.  In one of its battles at SW France, the cavalry of the Prince of Conde smashed the enemy line and destroyed the army of Anne duke of Joyeuse, at Coutras.  The victory had little impact, however, for the King of Navarre failed to press his advantage against the King of France.  FTP name this war, wherein Henri III king of France, was at 1st allied to the Catholic Holy League but in 1588 turned on the League by assassinating its leader Henri duke of Guise, and effectively allying himself with the Protestant Henri Bourbon king of Navarre.\par
\tab ANSWER: war of the \ul\b Three Henrys\ulnone\b0\par
\par
The first to set foot on them was Captain John Strong, who named them after the First Lord of the Admiralty, but the first to settle them was a Frenchman, Antoine de Bougainville, in 1764; the British answered with a settlement of their own a year later.  Both, however, were in violation of the Treaty of Utrecht, which granted sovereignty over them to Spain.  The collapse of Spain's New World empire in the early 19th century left their legal status in limbo, a condition which arguably persists to this day.  FTP name these desolate South Atlantic islands, invaded by Argentina and successfully defended by Britain in 1982.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Falkland\ulnone\b0  islands; or islas \ul\b Malvinas\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify the following women from Roman history.  10-5.\par
(10)  This daughter of Augustus married Agrippa and later Tiberius, and was later banished from Rome for her vice.\par
(5)  She shares her name with the daughter of Julius Caesar and wife of Pompey.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Julia\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This daughter of Julia married Germanicus Caesar and gave birth to Caligula.  She was exiled by Tiberius and Sejanus, and later starved to death.\par
(5)  She shares her name with her daughter, who persuaded Claudius to make Nero heir.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Agrippina\ulnone\b0  the Elder\par
(10)  This daughter of Claudius was deserted by Nero in favor of Poppaea, and sent to Pandataria to be executed.\par
(5)  She shares her name with the sister of Octavian once married to Mark Antony.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Octavia\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these campaigns from the Civil War.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Landing at Fort Monroe, McClellan was scared by John Magruder at Yorktown, and waited until he was flooded by the Chickahominy and attacked by Confederates for 7 days at Gaine's Mill, Savage's Station, and Malvern Hill, before abandoning Richmond.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Peninsular\ulnone\b0  campaign\par
(10)  Sucking on lemons the whole time, Stonewall Jackson kept Fremont, Banks, and McDowell away from the peninsula in this series of battles including Winchester, Front Royal, Cross Keys, Port Republic, Kerostown, Woodstock, and New Market.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Shenandoah\ulnone\b0  campaign\par
(10)  Grant crossed the Mississippi near Bruinsburg to win battles at Port Gibson, Raymond, Jackson, Champion's Hill, and Big Black River in a campaign to beseige this city, where John Pemberton finally surrendered after Gettysburg.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Vicksburg\ulnone\b0  campaign\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about the trial of Joan of Arc.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The trial took place in Rouen under the examination of Jena Lemaitre, inquisitor of France, and this bishop of Beauvais.\par
\tab ANSWER: Pierre \ul\b Cauchon\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Though Joan sweared to tell the truth, she refused to reveal things she said to this king, whom she helped crown at Reims after picking him out at Chinon.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Charles VII\ulnone\b0\par
(5+5)  Joan was given to the secular authorities after she claimed that the voices of these two saints had condemned her in making an abjuration.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: Saint \ul\b Catherine\ulnone\b0  and Saint \ul\b Margaret\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Name the following people related to the Spanish Armada.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This Spanish duke was appointed to command the Armada upon the death of the Marquis of Santa Cruz, though he had little experience as a naval commander.\par
\tab ANSWER: Alonso Perez de \ul\b Guzman\ulnone\b0 ; or duke of \ul\b Medina-Sidonia\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This English nobleman commanded the English fleet as Lord Admiral; though he was appointed more for his staunch Protestantism than for his tactical prowess, he proved a capable leader of the fleet.\par
\tab ANSWER: Charles \ul\b Howard\ulnone  \b0 of Effington; or 1st earl of \ul\b Nottingham\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This Spanish commander in the Netherlands, a superb strategist and leader, proved extraordinarily adept at turning the intricate waterways of the Low Countries to his tactical advantage; had the Armada triumphed, he would have led his army across the Channel to England.\par
\tab ANSWER: Alexander \ul\b Farnese\ulnone\b0 ; or duke of \ul\b Parma\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Answer the following about the Boer War.  FTPE.\par
(10)  On New Year's Day, 1896, a Scottish associate of Cecil Rhodes attempted to lead a force across the Transvaal and provoke an uprising in Johannesburg, but was quickly surrounded and captured by Boer forces.  Name that Scot and you name the event, which convinced the Afrikaners of Britain's aggressive intent.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Jameson\ulnone\b0  raid\par
(10)  This Boer leader of the Transvaal was affectionately known as 'Oom Paul'--Uncle Paul.  His name has come to be associated, however, with less affectionate things like extreme Afrikaner nationalism and apartheid.\par
\tab ANSWER: Paul \ul\b Kruger\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This Boer rose to prominence as a guerrilla commander during the war, though he would prove a political moderate and a staunch ally of Great Britain as Prime Minister of South Africa.  He led the republic to war in support of Great Britain in both the First and Second World Wars.\par
\tab ANSWER: Jan Christian \ul\b Smuts\ulnone\b0\par
\par
religion mythology philosophy 3/3\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Based on experience rather than ideas of experience, it is characterized by saying "no working no living," attributed to Baizhan.  The fashi or roshi leads the student in a sanzen, which in its Obaku sect, was begun by Yinyuan Longqi and his disciple Muyan, later developing into prowess in calligraphy.  Hui-neng, Te-shan, and Lin-chi were pioneers of this religion introduced to the west by Daisetz Suzuki.  Dogen took the Soto school to Japan, while Eisai brought the Rinzai school.  Introduced to China by Bodhidharma, FTP name this branch of Buddhism that practises zazen and koans.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Zen\ulnone\b0  Buddhism; or \ul\b Chan\ulnone\b0  Buddhism\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He has a black stripe painted on his face and challenges warriors at night at crossroads.  He protects young men's schools and slaves and is capable of causing leprosy.  Venerated at Mixteca and Texcoco, he ruled the Ocelotonatiuh before it was destroyed by jaguars and is known as Telpochtli and Yaotl, though his tearing apart of Cipactli earned him the name of Hurakan, or "One Foot."  Introducer of human sacrifice, he drove the "Feathered Serpent" from Tula.  FTP name this Aztec god of the Great Bear and the smoking mirror, an enemy of Quetzalcoatl.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Tezcatlipoca\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar This work distinguished between two aspects of Nature: \i natura naturans \i0 and \i natura naturata\i0 .  The latter is everything which follows from the necessity of God or God's attributes.  The former is the substance of God itself.  The world is a set of modes of God's attributes expressed in thought and extension.  It defined an attribute as "that which an intellect perceives as constituting the essence of substance," and the infinite substance as God or Nature.  Divided into theorems and demonstrations, this is, FTP what masterpiece by the Jewish thinker Baruch Spinoza.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Ethics\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these books of the Old Testament.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Named for the son of Amoz, this book contains the Immanuel oracle, the seige of Jerusalem by Sennacherib, the redemption of Israel by Cyrus the Great, and Servant songs as prophecies for Jesus Christ.  Name this longest book of the Old Testament.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Isaiah\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Assisting in the reforms of Josiah, the namesake prophet of this book wrote a Temple sermon, recorded the reigns of Jehoiakim and Zedekiah, predicted reunification in the Little Book of Comforts, and told of the fall of Jerusalem to Nebuchadnezzar.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Jeremiah\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Misunderstanding of 2 Chronicles 35 assigns this book's authorship to Jeremiah in a cave.  AKA Ekhan, it consists of 5 poems, 4 of which are alphabetic acrostics, written for public recitation in remembrance of the fall of Judah.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Lamentations\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these Hindu aspects of Devi.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Arising from the ocean on a lotus, she's Padma to her husband's dwarf Vamana.  Identified with Sri and fortune, this consort of Vishnu sits on an owl.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Lakshmi\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  She sprang out of the head of Durga to battle Raktabija.  Adorned by a girdle of arms and a necklace of skulls, name this dancing black goddess.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Kali\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Inventor of Sanskrit, this personification of a river rides on a swan with her husband Brahma.  Identified with Vac and speech, she's goddess of learning.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Sarasvati\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify the person.  30-20-10-5.\par
(30)  He had a life-long relationship with literary hostess Ottoline Morrell and described his understanding of relationships in \i Marriage and Morals\i0 .\par
(20)  He wrote \i A Critical Exposition of the Philosophy of Leibniz\i0 , \i Education and Social Order\i0 , \i What I Believe\i0 , \i My Philosophical Development\i0 , \i Why I Am Not a Christian\i0 , and \i The Free Man's Worship\i0 , at the pace of 3000 words a day.\par
(10)  This lecturer at Trinity College was the first president of the Pugwash Conference and led the Committee of 100 in campaigning for nuclear disarmament, leading to a prison sentence shortened due to health considerations.\par
(5)  He won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1950 and wrote \i Principia Mathematica\i0  along with his mentor Alfred North Whitehead.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: Bertrand \ul\b Russell\ulnone\b0\par
\par
fine arts 3/3\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Premiered in 1811 by Friedrich Schneider in a Leipzig concert conducted by Johann Philipp Christian Schulz, this E-flat Major work, the last of its form, is notable for its omission of the customary cadenza for the soloist in the \i Allegro\i0  and quasi-variations on a hymn-like theme in the \i Adagio un poco mosso\i0 .  The \i Rondo Allegro \i0 finale is a massive chordal exaltation led by the piano, described by Goethe in his novel \i Elective Affinities\i0 .  Although its composer dedicated a symphony to Napoleon, the nickname of this piece should be taken no more seriously than that of the \i Eroica Symphony\i0 .  FTP name this last piano concerto of Luwig van Beethoven.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Emperor\ulnone\b0  Concerto\i0 ; or Piano Concerto No. \ul\b 5\ulnone\b0  in E flat major\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Represented by painter Paul Delvaux and poet Paul Eluard, members of this movement dug up Lautreamont's \i Maldoror\i0  for inspiration and employed the technique of exquisite corpse.  Roberta Matta's \i The Unknowing\i0 , Alberto Giacometti's \i Spoon Woman\i0 , and Meret Oppenheim's \i Object, or Breakfast in Fur\i0 , are examples of this movement, which began with Philippe Soupault's writing of \i The Magnetic Fields\i0 .  \i The Kill\i0  by Andre Masson utilized its technique of automatism, used to uncover the realm of the unconscious.  Theorized by Andre Breton, FTP name this art movement led by Miro and Magritte.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b surrealism\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He went into acting for 5 dollars a day because he needed the money to support his recent marriage to Linda Arvidson.  Spotted by Biograph cameraman Arthur Marvin, he relunctantly took up the task of directing his first film, \i The Adventures of Dollie\i0 , in which a gypsy rides away with the baby Dollie, who escapes him and a watery death by falling off a wagon and getting rescued by a boy who is fishing.  This foretells his later depiction of a woman floating ominously toward the falls on an ice cake, before which he invented the pan and the traveling shot.  FTP name this American filmmaker of \i Way Down East\i0 , \i Intolerance\i0 , and \i Birth of a Nation\i0 .\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: David Wark \ul\b Griffith\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Having attacked another girl with a knife, she tempts Don Jose, singing of "near the ramparts of Seville," and promising to give him her love at Lillas Pastia's inn if he would arrange for her escape.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this titular character in a Georges Bizet opera.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b\i Carmen\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Carmen's latest lover is this man, who has been in the region rounding up bulls for his next fight, suggesting that Carmen's affairs last only six months.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Escamillo\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  After Carmen agrees to flee with Don Jose, he almost kills Escamillo, then finds his old lover in hiding, informing him that his mother is dying.  Who is this simple country girl who leaves with Don Jose, before he returns to kill Carmen?\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Micaela\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Name these buildings designed by Philip Johnson.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Johnson's residence at New Canaan, Connecticut, is better known by this name, because of its simple cubic design of an all-crystalline exterior, influenced by Mies van der Rohe's Farnsworth house.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Glass\ulnone\b0  house\par
(10)  Johnson designed this NY Park Ave. landmark skyscraper with Mies van der Rohe.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Seagram\ulnone\b0  building\par
(10)  Now called the Sony building, this headquarter of a telephone company designed by Johnson and John Burgee has a Chippendale-cabinet-like broken pediment.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b AT&T\ulnone\b0  building\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these American dancers.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Emily Dickinson inspired her \i Letter to the World\i0 ; the Brontes inspired \i Deaths and Entrances\i0 .  Trained at Denishawn, she choreographed \i Appalachian Spring\i0 , \i The Witch of Endor\i0 , and, at age 90, \i Rite of Spring\i0 , working with Isamu Noguchi and Louis Horst.\par
\tab ANSWER: Martha \ul\b Graham\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  The niece of a director, this UCLA grad choreographed \i Fall River Legends\i0 , \i Rodeo\i0 , \i Oklahoma\i0 , \i The Other\i0 , and dances in \i Carousel\i0  and \i Brigadoon\i0 .  \par
\tab ANSWER: Agnes \ul\b de Mille\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  She formed a troupe with Charles Weidman and developed a theory of "arc between two deaths."  Her works include \i The Shakers\i0 , \i Drama of Motion\i0 , and \i New Dance Trilogy\i0 , as well as setting Copland's \i El Salon Mexico\i0  to dance.\par
\tab ANSWER: Doris \ul\b Humphrey\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
social sciences geography 2/2\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Two competing theories for it are Gardner's multiple theory and Sternberg's triarchic theory.  Inspired by Cronbach's 1957 address, Hunt, Frost, and Lunneborg subtracted physical match reaction times from name match reaction times to get a measure for it, opposing the type of theories resulting from Guilford's 5-operation, 4-content, 6-product model.  Vernon and Cattell resolved disagreements raised by Thurstone against Spearman's general factor theory by proposing a hierarchical model for it using a parabolic \i fluid\i0  component and a linear \i crystallized\i0  part.  Terman tried to measure it, revising a test invented by Simon and Binet.  FTP name this mental capability.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: \ul\b intelligence\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Son of a linguist at the Jagiellonian University, he traveled to the Mediterranean and Leipzig before settling at the London School of Economics, enthralled by James Frazer's \i Golden Bough\i0 .  While at Yale, his second wife, painter Valetta Swann, helped him compile a study of Mexican peasant markets and \i Scientific Theory of Culture\i0 .  His functional view of social anthropology was developed among the Mailu in New Guinea and the Trobriand Islanders.  His \i A Diary in the Strict Sense of the Term\i0  kept in Polish, FTP name this anthropologist who wrote \i Argonauts of the Western Pacific\i0 .\par
\tab ANSWER: Bronislaw \ul\b Malinowski\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Name these archaeologists.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Director of Yale Peruvian Expedition, he located the Inca city of Machu Picchu above the Urubamba and capital of Vitcos before becoming Rep governor of Connecticut.\par
\tab ANSWER: Hiram \ul\b Bingham\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Raised among the Kikuyu, he found the skull of \i Proconsul africanus\i0  in Kenya and discovered \i Homo habilis\i0  at Olduvai gorge, and recruited Jane Goodall and Dian Fossey.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Louis Leakey\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  His discoveries at Lake Turkana include \i Australopithecus robustus\i0 , Nariokotome boy, and the jaw of a Sivapithecus, while opposing Kenyan leader Daniel arap Moi.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Richard Leakey\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Name these islands of Japan.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Containing the plains of Ishikari and the city of Sapporo, this northern island was the site of the 1972 winter Olympics and is now a tourist destination.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Hokkaido\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Containing mountainous terrain as in Mt. Ishizuchi, this smallest of the major islands lies south of Honshu, to which it is connected by three bridge systems.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Shikoku\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Containing volcanoes like Mt. Aso and the city of Fukuoka, this third largest island, southwest of Honshu, is full of hot springs and coal deposits.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Kyushu\b0\par
\ulnone\par
trash general knowledge sports 2/2\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In his rap album, he became the only man in human history to rhyme the word "trust" with the word "slut."  Ed Martin loaned him over $600,000 which he lied about for almost 10 years.  Traded for Otis Thorpe and Mitch Richmond in 1998, he was selected by the Magic, who shipped him off to the Warriors for Anfernee Hardaway, but conflict with Don Nelson led to his departure.  Recently complaining to Jim O'Brien about lack of playing time, he hasn't been the same since knee surgery, and was dealt along with Matt Barnes for Brian Skinner, Kenny Thomas, and Corliss Williamson by the Kings.  FTP name this Michigan forward who also called a time-out when he had none.\par
\pard\tab ANSWER: Chris \ul\b Webber\ulnone\b0\par
\par
His unusual speaking style, according to Craig McCracken, is based upon the syntax of a "comic book dictionary."  In a sense, he became the counterpart to his former master when he created Butch, Boomer, and brick in a jail cell commode, ironically mirroring the accident that sheared off the top of his skull.  Of course, his ineptitude as a lab assistant caused that accident--if he hadn't bumped Professor Utonium, Chemical X would never have tainted the concoction of sugar, spice, and everything nice.  FTP name this green-skinned chimp whose evil schemes are continually thwarted by the Powerpuff Girls.\par
\tab ANSWER: \ul\b Mojo Jojo\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these 2004 US Olympic soccer players.  FTSNOP.\par
(5)  The all time leader in goals, this wife of a former Red Sox shortstop hasn't done much lately, but assisted in the winning goal against Germany in the semifinals.\par
\tab ANSWER: Mia \ul\b Hamm\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This youngster scored that winning goal, but didn't get into the finals match against Brazil until the overtime period.\par
\tab ANSWER: Heather \ul\b O'Reilly\ulnone\b0\par
(5)  Wearing golden shoes, this forward scored the overtime winning header off a corner kick against Brazil to lead the team in goals in the 2004 Olympics.\par
\tab ANSWER: Abby \ul\b Wambach\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Along with Mia Hamm and Joy Fawcett, this US midfielder and captain is retiring after the 2004 Olympics.\par
\tab ANSWER: Julie \ul\b Foudy\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
Name the song given lyrics or the artist.  10-5.\par
(10)  "Today's another day to find you / Shying away / I'll be coming for your love, okay?"\par
(5)  A-ha, 1985.\par
\tab ANSWER: "\ul\b Take On Me\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  "I'm the same boy I used to be / I'm the same boy I used to be."\par
(5)  Eric Prydz, 2004.\par
\tab ANSWER: "\ul\b Call On Me\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  "Sometimes in our lives, we all have pain / We all have sorrow."\par
(5)  Bill Withers, 1972.\par
\tab ANSWER: "\ul\b Lean On Me\ulnone\b0 "\par
\par
}
 