{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\f0\fs20 Princeton Fall Tournament, 2005.\par
Packet by UCLA.\par
Questions by Ray Luo.\par
\par
Literature [5/5] (1/1 American, 1/1 British, 1/1 European, 1/1 World, 1/1 YC)\par
\par
After "if there were water and no rock, if there were rock and also water," it divides into sections about what have we given, about releasing Coriolanus with a key, and about the obedient heart.  Beginning with "after the torchlight red on sweaty faces" (*) and "we who were living are now dying," it takes "Hieronymo's mad againe" from Kyd's \i The Spanish Tragedy\i0  and "the third who walks always beside you" from Christ's journey to Emmaus.  Coming after Phlebas the Phoenician, "London Bridge is falling down," and Datta, Dayadhvam, Damyata, Shantih from the \i Upanishads\i0  end, FTP this last section of \i The Wasteland\i0  taking place "in a flash of lightning."\par
ANSWER: "\ul\b What the Thunder Said\ulnone\b0 "; accept \i The Waste Land\i0  up to (*), else prompt\par
\par
One character in this work points out that "the amount of women in London who flirt with their own husbands is perfectly scandalous," giving an example of Mary Farquhar, next to whom he must always sit, prompted by Aunt Augusta, who prefers ignorant young men to knowledgeable ones, and so "the whole theory of modern education is radically unsound"; fortunately in England, "education produces no effect whatsoever."  Left as a baby in a handbag in exchange for a 3-volume novel, Jack Worthing aspires to the hand of Lady Bracknell's daughter, Gwendolen Fairfax, who loves him because his name "inspires absolute confidence."  FTP name this Oscar Wilde play preaching honesty.\par
ANSWER: \i The \ul\b Importance of Being Earnest\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
One member of this family wants a 2nd divorce when her husband was caught making love to a servant, and didn't need her dowry.  Erica marries Weinschenk, who goes to jail for 3 years for business practices.  Tom dies after falling in the snow, leaving her wife Gerda, who had held music parties in their Mengstrasse mansion.  Christian fails in South America and marries a notorious actress in Munich after his brother dies.  After divorcing the faudulent Grunlich, Tony marries the beer merchant Permaneder.  Begun by Johann, who left his estate to Jean, its last member is music-loving Hanno, who succumbs to typhoid.  FTP name this titular family in a Thomas Mann novel.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Buddenbrooks\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
His plays include \i The Jest\i0 , \i The Lady of the Tacna\i0 , and \i The Escape of the Inca\i0 .  A writer-in-residence at Washington State before settling in Barcelona, he wrote fictional biographies of Rafael Trujillo and Paul Gauguin, and recalls his political career in \i A Fish in the Water\i0 .  He satirizes fanaticism in \i Captain Pantoja and the Special Service\i0 , relates an accidental castration in "The Cubs," parodies modern life in \i The Green House\i0 , and recalls oppression at Leonicio Prado military school in \i The Time of the Hero\i0 .  FTP name this Peruvian author of \i Aunt Julia and the Scripwriter\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Mario \ul\b Vargas Llosa\b0\par
\ulnone\par
The protagonist of this work hides coins left by a groom by sewing them into the lining of his tunic, and later tries to trade a riding cloak for it at the market when it was lost.  He consoles himself with Doris, the wife of a friend of Lycurgus, when he is deserted by Tryphaena, and later witnesses the hurling of his friend the poet down a cliff at Croton when they were shipwrecked aboard Lichas' boat.  Ascyltus loses the slave boy Gito to Encolpius, who lacks the vigor to make love to Circe.  Containing the sections "Widow of Ephesus" and "Banquet of Trimalchio," FTP name this picaresque work of fiction about the licentious Romans by Petronius.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Satyricon\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
When Don Parritt jumps from the fire escape, Larry Slade realizes his son is dead, and he was grandstanding on his philosophical platform, afraid to give up his pipe dream of waiting for death with a no-judgment stance.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Larry is the only convert of Hickey in this play.  The rest of the drunkards of End of the Line Cafe, or Bedrock Bar, go back to their ways after Hickey is arrested.\par
ANSWER: \i The \ul\b Iceman Cometh\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Name the dramatist who wrote \i The Iceman Cometh\i0  as well as \i Strange Interlude\i0 , \i The Great God Brown\i0 , and \i Mourning Becomes Electra\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Eugene \ul\b O'Neill\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  He mourned the death of his wife Bess for 20 years, harbors his brother-in-law Ed Mosher, and is afraid to go out because the imaginary automobiles might crush him.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Harry Hope\ulnone\b0 ; accept either name\par
\par
Novels by Charles Dickens.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Leicester Dedlock's lawyer Tulkington unravels Lady Dedlock's relationship to Captain Hawdon and her illegitimate daughter Esther Summerson, who marries Woodcourt.  Meanwhile, Richard Carstone and Ada Clare wait for a verdict on Jarndyce vs Jarndyce.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Bleak House\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Banker Josiah Bounderby pays his parents to keep out of sight, marrying Louisa, who awakes emotionally with James Harthouse.  Tom tries to frame Stephen Blackpool for robbing Bounderby's bank, and his father Thomas Gradgrind regrets raising him.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Hard Times\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  The circumlocution office is satirized when Arthur Clennam returns from China, and the titular Amy marries him in Marshalsea prison, even though her father William finally makes a fortune while Amy remains in debtor's prison to sew for Mrs. Clennam.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Little Dorrit\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
Once a smggler and a customs clerk, he came up with a scheme of mortgaging souls still on the census list to the Trustee Committee to build his own estate.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Accompanied by his coachman Selifan and valet Petrushka, he haggles with both Plyushkin and Sobakevich and offers to take the tax burden off Manilov.  Name this literary character arrested for forging a will, but is cleverly defended by a lawyer.\par
ANSWER: Pavel Ivanovich \ul\b Chichikov\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Chichikov is the hero of this novel by Nikolay Gogol.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Myortvye dushi\ulnone\b0\i0 ; or \ul\b\i Dead Souls\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  This liar and gambler tries to play cards with Chichikov for the souls, but is soon arrested before "informing" the populace that Chichikov really is a spy trying to elope with the governor's daughter.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Nozdryov\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Nozdreff\ulnone\b0\par
\par
African authors.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The white policeman Pieter van Vlaanderen's affair with the black girl Stephanie is the subject of his \i Too Late the Phalarope\i0 , but he is better known for the stories in \i Tales from a Troubled Land\i0  and the novel \i Cry, the Beloved Country\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Alan \ul\b Paton\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  She wrote the stories in \i Face to Face\i0  and \i Loot\i0 .  A white family fleeing to its black servant's village is the basis for her \i July's People\i0 , while the imprisonment of the protagonist's anti-apartheid father is the subject of her \i Burger's Daughter\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Nadine \ul\b Gordimer\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Using his own lectures for the Appleton classes of his fictional titular writer \i Elizabeth Costello\i0 , this novelist also describes Susan Barton's meeting with the real life Daniel Defoe after leaving Robinson Crusoe in his \i Foe\i0 .\par
ANSWER: John Michael (also Maxwell or Marie) \ul\b Coetzee\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Poems by Wallace Stevens from quotations.  FTPE.\par
(10)  "The wilderness rose up to it, and sprawled around, no longer wild."  "It did not give of bird or bush, like nothing else in Tennesse."  The titular object was "gray and bare," and "round upon the ground."\par
ANSWER: "\ul\b Anecdote of the Jar\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  "Yet the absence of the imagination had itself to be imagined."  "All this had to be imagined as an inevitable knowledge, required, as a necessity requires."  "After the leaves have fallen, we return to" this, the titular condition.\par
ANSWER: "The \ul\b Plain Sense of Things\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  "If her horny feet protrude, they come to show how cold she is, and dumb."  "Call the roller of big cigars, the muscular one, and bid him whip in kitchen cups concupiscent curds."  "Let the lamp affix its beam," the namesake is the only master.\par
ANSWER: "The \ul\b Emperor of Ice-Cream\ulnone\b0 "\par
\par
History [5/5] (2/1 or 1/2 American, 2/1 or 1/2 European, 1/1 World, 1/1 YC)\par
\par
Henry Adams was so pumped up after this incident that he wanted "to fight some small man and lick him," in addition to getting the victorious party drunk at his expense.  After marching from Milliken's Bend down to Cypress Swamp, and crossing the river at Bruinsburg, the army won at Raymond, Champion's Hill, and Bridgeport before settling for the support of Admiral David Porter.  The \i Gazette\i0  was printed on wallpaper and caves were dug in the hillside before the 48 day ordeal ended when Confederate John Pemberton called it an "act of cruel inhumanity" to continue.  Taking place following Gettysburg, FTP name this fall of a city on the Mississippi to Ulysses S. Grant.\par
ANSWER: fall of \ul\b Vicksburg\b0\par
\ulnone\par
The opinion for this case reached back as far as \i Union Pacific v. Botsford\i0  to support an implicit claim, and issued evidence from Dr. Edelstein regarding the Hippocratic Oath.  William O. Douglas was outraged by the political motivations for a delay in its argument, and it was upheld in the \i Webster\i0  case.  Sarah Weddington was later accused of leading the plaintiff on, and James H. Hallford was arrested for violation of a Texas statute.  With a dissent from White and Rehnquist, Harry Blackmun wrote the majority opinion that recommended a system of trimesters.  Accompanied by the Georgia case \i Doe v. Bolton\i0 , FTP name this supreme court case that used the right of privacy implied by the 14th amendment to uphold Norma McCorvey's right to abortion.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Roe\ulnone\b0  v. \ul\b Wade\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
His brother Alfred the Aetheling was murdered upon his return to England, and his grandnephew Edgar the Aetheling was captured by Henry I at Tinchebrai years after fleeing for Scotland during the power struggle after the death of this man, who was admired by Henry III.  Insults aimed at Norman knights at Dover caused him to banish Godwine, who refused to punish his constituents, and he had his wife Edith, Godwine's daughter, imprisoned.  Son of Emma of Normandy and Ethelred the Unready, he entrusted his kingdom to Tostig and Harold Godwineson and built Westminster Abbey.  FTP name this last Saxon king who took over for Hardecanute in 1042, a saintly devout king.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Edward\ulnone\b0  the \ul\b Confessor\ulnone\b0\par
\par
It claims that "the dying are freed by death from all penalties" and that "no one is sure that his own contrition is sincere."  Criticized by Johann Eck, it cites the legend of St. Severinus and St. Paschal as examples of souls in purgatory, and includes six consecutive questions beginning with the word "again."  Prompted by the archbishop of Mainz's appointment of Johann Tetzel, it notes that only the grace of God can grant pardons and calls papal pardons madness in number 75.  Raised against Albert of Brandenburg and posted on a Wittenberg church door, FTP name this set of statements, a \i Disputation on the Power and Efficacy of Indulgences\i0 , by Martin Luther.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Ninety-Five Theses\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
One of this dynasty's rulers began his career by suppressing the Takshasila revolt and governing Ujjain.  Its founder starved himself to death after voluntary exile, and established this empire by defeating the Nandas.  The commander Pusyamitra killed its last ruler Brhadratha, and established the Sunga, but its legacy lives on in the bureaucratic model of \i Arthasastra\i0  and the spread of Buddhism to Egypt and Sri Lanka.  Ruling over Magadha from Pataliputra, FTP name this Indian dynasty that took over after Alexander the Great's invasion, led by Chandragupta and his grandson Ashoka.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Maurya\ulnone\b0 n\par
\par
Answer the following about the French and Indian war.  FTPE.\par
(10)  William Pitt sent this British general to America for an expedition to western Pennsylvania, but he died after loosing 900 men and failing to capture Fort Duquesne.\par
ANSWER: Edward \ul\b Braddock\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Braddock and and his aide George Washington lost to the French Jean Dumas and Daniel de Beaujeu at this site in the battle of the eponymous river.  Thomas Dunbar took command of the remaining British troops and withdrew south to Fort Cumberland.\par
ANSWER: battle of \ul\b Monongahela\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This French commander captured Oswego and Fort William Henry and faced James Abercrombie at Fort Ticonderoga.  A hidden route traversed by James Wolfe led to his defeat on the Plains of Abraham at the battle of Quebec, where he also died.\par
ANSWER: Louis Joseph \ul\b Montcalm\ulnone\b0 ; or Marquis de \ul\b Saint-Veran\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Answer the following about the presidency of Warren Gamaliel Harding.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Harding's election as lieutenant governor of Ohio and 1920 nomination for the presidency were due to this lawyer, who later served as his attorney general.\par
ANSWER: Harry Micajah \ul\b Daugherty\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Relying on a Tariff Commission to evaluate particular items, this 1922 tariff hiked up post world war I rates to an all time high.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Fordney-McCumber\ulnone\b0  Tariff\par
(10)  Harding defeated this Ohioan newspaper publisher for the presidency in 1920.  He ran with a young FDR and later attended the World Economic Conference in London.\par
ANSWER: James Middleton \ul\b Cox\ulnone\b0\par
\par
He distinguished himself at the Meway crossing while commander of the Legio II Augusta, and later sent Agricola to lead the Roman army into Scotland.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this founder of the Flavian dynasty who put down the revolt of Julius Civilis, the last of the year of four emperors, succeeded in turn by his son Titus.\par
ANSWER: Titus Flavius \ul\b Vespasian\ulnone\b0 us; or Caesar \ul\b Vespasian\ulnone\b0 us Augustus\par
(10)  In 67, Vespasian forced this Pharisee to surrender at Jotapata.  He would later adapt the name Flavius and write the histories \i The Jewish War\i0  and \i Jewish Antiquities\i0 .\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Josephus\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This governor of Syria plotted the ascent of Vespasian.  He was sent with a force to Dyrrhachium and later took Rome after the murder of Vitellius, well before Vespasian's general Antonius Primus could arrive.\par
ANSWER: Gaius Licinius \ul\b Mucian\ulnone\b0 us\par
\par
Name these people associated with Louis XIV.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Founder of the College of Four Nations, this minister for Anne of Austria and the young Louis brought an end to the 30 Years War, but clumsily handled the arrest of a magistrate, touching off the Fronde which he helped suppress from Germany.\par
ANSWER: Jules \ul\b Mazarin\ulnone\b0 ; or Giulio \ul\b Mazarini\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Mazarin engineered the marriage of this daughter of Philip IV to Louis XIV, and though they didn't get along, Louis' 2nd wife and children's governess Francoise d'Aubigne, Marquise de Maintenon effected a public reconciliation between the two.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Marie Therese\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Louis XIV also had an affair with this marquise, who, like the Duchess de la Valliere before her, joined a convent after Louis got tired of her.  She was also disgraced over the Affair of the Poisons that involved the deaths of some nobles.\par
ANSWER: Francoise Athenais de Rochechouart, Marquise de \ul\b Montespan\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Name these Mexican military leaders.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Sent to fight an uprising by Vicente Guerrero, he joined him instead to issue the Plan of Iguala calling for Mexican independence under a monarch, and signed the Treaty of Cordoba.  Declaring himself emperor, he was overthrown by Santa Anna.\par
ANSWER: Agustin de \ul\b Iturbide\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  He supported Juarez in the War of the Reform and attempted military coups in 1867 and 1871 before succeeding against Sebastian Lerdo de Tejada.  After reelection, he secured passage of an unlimited term amendment and remained in power until Madero.\par
ANSWER: Porfirio \ul\b Diaz\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  He joined the Mexico City army in rebelling against Madero and had him shot, but saw Veracruz occupied by the US and uprisings led by Carranza, Villa, and Zapata.  He fled to Spain, but was later arrested in the US and died in Fort Bliss, El Paso.\par
ANSWER: Victoriano \ul\b Huerta\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Science [5/5] (1/1 Bio, 1/1 Chem, 1/1 Physics, 1/1 Astro/Earth/Computer/Math, 1/1 YC)\par
\par
The mechanism of action of this enzyme is explained by the Inchworm model.  In SV40, it is a hexamer called large T-antigen; in \i e. coli\i0  it is called DnaB.  After it carries out its function, its substrates are bound to copies of heterotrimeric RPA or SSB.  In eukaryotes, it is loaded by the 6-subunit ORC, and consists of 6 homologous MCM proteins, regulated by S-phase cyclin-dependent kinases.  It binds to AT rich areas called replication orgins and loads onto 5' overhangs to begin unraveling the double strand using energy from ATP.  FTP name this enzyme that unwinds the DNA duplex during replication.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b helicase\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Find the number of components c by subtracting the number of restrictive conditions from the number of constituents.  Add c-1 concentration terms for each state to 2 for pressure and temperature to get the number of independent variables.  Equate energies for different states to get p-1 equations for each component.  Subract the number of equations from the number of intensive variables to get p(c-1) + 2 - c(p-1) = c-p+2 variables that can be varied without changing the number of equilibrium phases, or degree of freedom f.  Giving f=1 at phase boundaries and f=0 at the triple point, FTP name this rule derived by a Yale physicist.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Gibbs phase\ulnone\b0  rule\par
\par
One way to state it involves observing currents flowing in opposite directions inside and outside a ring in a uniform magnetic field, which when removed, leaves only the inside surface current, with the magnetic flux trapped inside quantized in units of 2 pi h-bar c over q.  It is explained by relating Maxwell's equation to the London equation, and obtaining an expression for the London penetration depth, which refers to the exponential decaying magnetic field at the surface of cooled substance like tin and mercury.  Type II materials like vanadium and niobium exhibit the mixed state type of this effect co-discovered by Robert Ochsenfeld.  FTP name this effect in which the magnetic field is expelled from the interior of a superconductor.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Meissner\ulnone  \b0 effect\par
\par
Its value at even integers can be expressed in terms of the Bernoulli numbers and its reciprocal can be written as a sum over the naturals of a function of the Mobius function.  Its value at 3 is the Apery constant, and the Mellin transform can be used on it to derive the prime counting function.  Generalized by Hurwitz and Lerch, its equivalence to a product over all primes of 1 over 1 minus p to the s for complex s was found by Euler.  Written as the sum over n from 1 to infinity of 1 over n to the s, FTP name this function whose nontrivial zeros are subjects of a famous hypothesis.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Riemann zeta\ulnone  \b0 function\par
\par
Its predictions can be verified via the Rockwell and Vickers methods.  The Brinell machine is used to determine its validity in metals, and its rival the Martens values are calculated using the test force generated by a Berkovich indenter.  Common tests used to define it are finger nail, copper coin, window glass, and blade scratching.  Flourite is just above calcite and below apatite, while talc and gypsum are given values of 1 and 2 in this scale.  Topaz, corundum, and diamond have values of 8, 9, and 10 in, FTP name this hardness scale deviced by its namesake German mineralogist.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Mohs\ulnone  \b0 scale\par
\par
The first enzyme of beta oxidation, acyl coA dehydrogenase, transfers electrons to FAD, then to ETF, which passes them via an oxidoreductase to this.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Reduced by the oxidation of glycerol 3-phosphate to DAP and G3P for glycolysis, and by NADH from the Krebs cycle delivering to complex I, name this electron carrier.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b ubiquinone\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  In this process in complex III, 2 ubiquinols each donate 1 electron to cytochrome c via the myxothiazol-inhibited b_L heme P site and 1 electron to another ubiquinone via the antimycin A-inhibited b_H heme N site, recycling the ubiquinone.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Q cycle\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Ubiquinone is a carrier for this complex of proteins that use energy derived from NADH oxidation to pump out protons, carrying out oxidative phosphorylation.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b electron transport\ulnone  \b0 chain\par
\par
Answer the following about lipid membranes.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This technique coats a membrane with a flourescent reagent and shines laser to bleach part of it irreversibly.  The amount of flourescence that returns measures the amount of mobile lipids and the rate of return gives the diffusion coefficient.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b f\ulnone\b0 lourescence \ul\b r\ulnone\b0 ecovery \ul\b a\ulnone\b0 fter \ul\b p\ulnone\b0 hotobleaching (FRAP)\par
(10)  Produced in the Golgi and found in stressed membranes like apical surface of the gut, this type of lipid is more stable due to free OH hydrogen bonding.  Its thickness is unaffected by cholesterol and it's commonly found in myelin sheath.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b sphingo\ulnone\b0 lipids\par
(10)  To increase membrane fluidity, you'd need shorter lipids, less sphingolipids, introduce small concentration of cholesterol, or provide fatty acids with kinks or double bonds in them, which are known as this type of fatty acid.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b unsaturated\ulnone  \b0 fatty acids\par
\par
Answer the following about crystal systems.  FTPE.\par
(10)  While 5 different unit cells can be constructed in 2D, these 14 unit cells can be constructed in 3D when we take face and body center into consideration, using 3 lengths and 3 angles to specify the primitive cells.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Bravais\ulnone  \b0 lattices\par
(10)  This crystal system has all 3 angles unequal and all 3 sides of different lengths.  If instead two of angles were 90 degrees, it becomes monoclinic.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b triclinic\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  For planes in the lattice, take the reciprocal of the intercepts with its axes and multiply by the largest common denominator to obtain this value for each plane, named for a British mineralogist, describing a series of parallel planes.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Miller\ulnone  \b0 index\par
\par
Undirected versions have been generalized as Markov random fields.  Popularized by Judea [YU-DA] Pearl in \i Probabilistic Inference in Intelligent Systems\i0 , it represents random variables as nodes and statistical dependencies as directed links.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this formalism that compactly represent joint probability distributions, named for a rule for calculating the posterior from the likelihood and the prior.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Bayes\ulnone\b0 ian networks; or \ul\b belief\ulnone  \b0 networks; or \ul\b directed graphical model\ulnone\b0 s if you really know what you're talking about\par
(10)  Instead of directed links for causal relationships, we moralize the graph, make nodes binary and edges undirected, forming a Boltzmann machine.  Normalization works by dividing marginal probabilities by this function, symbolized Z in stat mech.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b partition\ulnone  \b0 function\par
(10)  Probabilistic independencies among nodes can be found by graph theoretic means.  Starting from a node, we bounce past a neighbor, bounce back from a neighbor, or get blocked by a neighbor in accordance to d-separation.  Name this algorithm for discoverying conditional independencies that's not America's favorite past time.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Bayes ball\ulnone  \b0 algorithm\par
\par
Beer and Madler's definition of the prime meridian on this planet was narrowed down with the identification of the Airy Zero crater on Meridian Bay by Mariner 9.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this planet with a larger Northern polar ice cap, said to be the source of the ALH84001 meteorite, that was also visited by Viking 1 and 2 in 1976.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Mars\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Along with Percival Lowell, this Italian astronomer postulated the existence of channels on Mars that may have resulted from a primitive flood.\par
ANSWER: Giovanni \ul\b Schiaparelli\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This moon of Mars rotates around its mother planet with a period four times shorter than its counterpart.  Lying within the Roche limit of Mars, it is also larger and more massive than the satellite that lies farther away.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Phobos\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Religion/Mythology/Philosophy [3/3] (1/1 Each)\par
\par
He was taken prisoner after the defeat of Bera and Birsha in the Valley of Siddim to Amraphel king of Babylonia and Kedorlaomer king of Elam.  He had left his uncle for Zoar in the Jordan Valley, and is rescued by a coalition including Mamre.  He baked bread without yeast for his visitors, whom he vouched to protect by sending his two virgin daughters out to the crowd.  Those daughters later got him drunk and had sex with him in a cave, giving rise to the Moabite and Ammonite peoples.  FTP name this nephew of Abraham who escaped from Sodom, but his wife was turned into a salt pillar.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Lot\ulnone\b0\par
\par
It arrives on the scene once every 7 years and causes anyone to look into its eyes to fall fast asleep.  Inhabiting the territory of Tuatha De Dannan after a fight between Nechtan and Boann, it became a desired object after Lia's craneskin bag led the hero to his father, who suggested going to the border between land and sea.  The blind-folded Finegas finally got his hands on it, but a blister on a thumb of Demne caused him to suck its juices 1st.  Feeding on hazelnuts from the Tree of Wisdom on the river Boyne, FTP name this fish from the Fenian cycle consumed by Finn MacCool.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Fintan\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Salmon\ulnone  \b0 of \ul\b Knowledge\b0\par
\ulnone\par
He wrote for the journal \i The Moment\i0  and attacked churches in \i Training in Christianity\i0  and \i Works of Love\i0 , exhausting his fortune, which he left for a woman who married a governor in the West Indies.  Popularized by Georg Brandes, he espoused the need for free will in idealized Christianity in \i Philosophical Fragments\i0 .  Son of a Lutheran woolen dealer who once cursed God as a farmhand in an episode he called "The Great Earthquake," he considered himself 1000 years too old for Regine Olsen, but made it seem like she rejected him.  Compiling his most famous work under the name Victor Eremita, FTP name this Danish philosopher who wrote \i Fear and Trembling\i0  and \i Either/Or\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Soren \ul\b Kierkegaard\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Name these people involved in a religious controversy.  FTPE.\par
(10)  A student of satirist Lucian at Antioch, he was banished from Alexandria for contending that Christ was merely homoiousion with God.  Author of \i Thalia\i0 , or \i The Banquet\i0 , this namesake of a heresy was removed to Illyria after Council of Nicaea.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Arius\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Exiled many times for refusing to reinstate Arius, this bishop of Alexandria led the fight against Arianism, espousing doctrine of homoousion (note the difference in a single letter), which held that God and His Son are of the same essence.\par
ANSWER: Saint \ul\b Athanasius\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  After defeating Maxentius at Milvian Bridge after dreaming of Christ, he issued the Edit of Milan for the toleration of Christians and called the 1st Council of Nicaea as an unbaptized Christian, leading to the condemnation of Arianism.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Constantine I\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Constantine\ulnone  \b0 the \ul\b Great\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Name these mythological figures involved in the overthrow of Cronus.  FTPE.\par
(10)  On Mount Thaumasium in Arcadia, Rhea gave her husband Cronus a stone wrapped in clothes to eat, so that he'd believe he had swallowed this 3rd son of his, who is actually hung next to a tree, protected by the Curetes, until he comes of age.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Zeus\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Zeus visited this Titaness who lives at the ocean.  She concocted a potion that when fed to Cronus caused him to vomit out his children.  Zeus would later swallow her to prevent her from conceiving a son after being pregnant with Athena.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Metis\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Zeus then killed the Campe jailor and released the Cyclopes and the 100-Handed Ones from Tartarus.  After Zeus zipped Cronus with the thunderbolt, the Titans are sent to Britain and this leader of the Titans has to carry the sky on his shoulders.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Atlas\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Also called the maximin principle, it suggests that any socioeconomic inequalities should provide the greatest benefit for the least well off.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this concept, which along with the liberty principle, is what people in the environment-free original position would choose behind a veil of ignorance.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b difference\ulnone  \b0 principle\par
(10)  Name the Harvard philosopher who coined the difference principle in his most famous work, and elaborated it in his \i Political Liberalism\i0 .\par
ANSWER: John \ul\b Rawls\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Instead of maximizing average utility, John Rawls suggests in this magnum opus that people would defend themselves from the worst possible outcome if they couldn't know their own position in society, but unequal distribution is still possible.\par
ANSWER: \i A \ul\b Theory of Justice\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
Fine Arts [2/2] (1/1 Art, 1/1 Music)\par
\par
Although its creator spent much of the time in Rome at the sacristy of the Basilica of St. Peter working on \i Burial of Christ\i0 , it took only 5 years to complete and may have been intended for an open space in Florence.  People pulling a cart can be seen in the elaborate helmet, which may have stood for the dukes of Milan with whom its creator's patrons have been at war.  The body of a youth was used to model the title figure, who wears a wreathed hat and holds a long sword with his right hand.  Held at the Bargello, FTP name this first freestanding nude since antiquity, a bronze sculpture by Donatello showing a boy stepping on the head of Goliath.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i David\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
The opening of the Adagio in this work is quoted near the end of the Largo, while the Scherzo combines both of the previous movement's themes in a coda.  Using flattened leading notes and the dominant minor liberally, it originally contained the inscriptions "Neptune," "Dance and Celebration on Board Ship," "Chorale," and "Tempest and Calm and Safe Return to Land."  Suggested by Jeannette M. Thurber of the National Conservatory, it was revised to add pentatonic coloring and Scotch snap rhythms.  Its Allegro con fuoco hailed as a manual for American composers, FTP name this symphony inspired by syncopation of Native American music, by Antonin Dvorak.\par
ANSWER: Symphony No. \ul\b 9\ulnone\b0  in E minor; or \ul\b\i From the New World\ulnone\b0  Symphony\i0 ; or \ul\b\i Z noveho sveta\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\par
He created \i Odalisque with Magnolias\i0  and his last work was \i Souvenir of Oceania\i0 , a mural combining paint, crayon, and cut paper.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Also influenced by Cubism, Japanese prints, Persian ceramics, and Arabic tiles, name this fauvist painter from Le Cateau who painted \i Blue Nude\i0  and \i The Red Room\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Henri \ul\b Matisse\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  A woman playing two recorders at once is at the foreground of this Matisse work that shows reclining figures keeping each other company while a shepherd takes care of the goats and 6 people join in a circular dance in the center background.\par
ANSWER: \i The \ul\b Joy of Life\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Matisse completed a painting of his wife Amelie in this color wearing a hat, using broad brush strokes to paint the stripes that run across her forehead and nose.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b green\ulnone\b0\par
\par
He left New Orleans because he claimed he wanted to be "the champion pool player of the world."  He claimed to have packed the Cadillac Cafe with Hollywood stars while he was in CA, and told music publisher Lester Melrose that he invented jazz.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this leader of the New Orleans Rhythm Kings and Red Hot Peppers, a Creole pianist who composed \i Mamamita\i0 , \i Dead Man Blues\i0 , and \i The Pearls\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Jelly Roll \ul\b Morton\ulnone\b0 ; or Ferdinand Joseph \ul\b La Menthe\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Morton is perhaps most famous for this tune in which he invented riffs and breaks.  It was adopted by Benny Goodman into a famous stomp that launched the jazz age.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i King Porter\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Morton claimed to have stayed and learned with this pianist at St. Louis, but disagreed on the use of the piano as an entire band as opposed to a solo.  Name this ragtime composer of \i Euphonic Sounds\i0 , \i Magnetic Rag\i0 , \i Original Rag\i0 , and \i Maple Leaf Rag\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Scott \ul\b Joplin\b0\par
\ulnone\par
Social Science [2/2] \par
\par
Elkind and Bowen defined the abiding and transient selves that are revealed to an imaginary audience during this stage.  Experiments identifying it include asking a subject to determine whether weight, release height, or force affected the rapidity of a pendulum swing, and Cometa and Eson found that children began using metaphors.  Although still egocentric, they can formulate plans, conceive ideal situations, and reason from propositions that're contrary to fact.  Described by Inhelder and Piaget, FTP name this stage characterized by abstract reasoning that follows the concrete operational stage, the last stage in Piaget's theory of cognitive development.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b formal operation\ulnone\b0 al stage\par
\par
His theory is applied to typology of societies by Freeman and Winch, and his \i Critique of Public Opinion\i0  explains the use of sanctions against dissidents.  Author of \i Custom\i0  and editor of \i Elements of Law\i0  by Thomas Hobbes, he explained intrinsic motivation and means-ends motivation as natural will and rational will.  He contrasted the closely-knit union of proximal groups with the larger society of self-interests.  Coining concepts like "kurwille" and "wesenwille," FTP name this German sociologist who contrasted community with society in his \i Gemeinschaft und Gesellschaft\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Ferdinand \ul\b Tonnies\ulnone\b0\par
\par
5401, a smoker and an activist, confessed to have enrolled to try to foil it; 8612 was offered niceties in exchange for being an informant; 416 was a new admit who goes on hunger strike in order to prove that he can be released from the study.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this experiment taking place in a West coast university's psychology department in which subjects took on the roles of either inmates or guards.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Stanford prison\ulnone  \b0 experiment\par
(10)  This director of the Shyness Clinic at Stanford was the PI for the prison experiment, working with Craig Haney, W. Curtis Banks, and David Jaffe.\par
ANSWER: Philip \ul\b Zimbardo\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  One of the prisoners was given this nickname for his obedience to everything the guards demanded, including those of the hardliners like John Wayne.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Sarge\b0\par
\ulnone\par
He was influenced by Roman Jakobson while at the New School for Social Research, and returned to Paris to teach social anthropology.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this structural anthropologist whose works include \i The Elementary Structures of Kinship\i0 , \i Tristes tropiques\i0 , \i The Savage Mind\i0 , and \i The View from Afar\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Claude \ul\b Levi-Strauss\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Attempting to uncover cultural metastructures, this four-volume Levi-Strauss work includes \i The Naked Man\i0 , \i The Origin of Table Manners\i0 , \i From Honey to Ashes\i0 , and \i The Raw and the Cooked\i0 .\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Mythologiques\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Levi-Strauss studied the mythology and art of Native Americans of the Northwest in this two-volume 1975 work.\par
ANSWER: \i La \ul\b voie des masques\ulnone\b0\i0 ; or \i The \ul\b Way of the Masks\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
Geography [1/1] \par
\par
It includes Tortuga and Grande Cayemite.  Saumatre Lake lies on the eastern border of this nation, just north of La Salle peak and east of Montagne Terrible in the Cul-de-Sac.  The Cap de Mole in the north and Cap des Irois in the south bound the Gulf of La Gonave, and the Artibonite river flows through the Plaine du Nord.  Lying east of Navassa and southeast of the Windward passage from Cuba, its cities include Les Cayes and Dessalines.  Where Jean-Bertrand Aristide returned to power before being ousted by the US, FTP name this nation of western Hispaniola with capital at Port-au-Prince.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Haiti\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Lakes of eastern Africa.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Drained by Lukuga to the west on its way to the Congo, this 2nd largest lake of Africa is found south of Lake Kivu and west of Lake Rukwa, on the border between Burundi, Zambia, Tanzania, and the Democratic Republic of Congo.\par
ANSWER: Lake \ul\b Tanganyika\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Also called Ukerewe for the largest island on it, this is drained by the Nile, which flows out of it at Jinja, Uganda.  Northwest of the Serengeti, it lies south of Lake Kyoga and is connected to Lake George and Lake Edward to its west.\par
ANSWER: Lake \ul\b Victoria\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Found on the border of Zambia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, this lake is located southwest of Lake Tanganyika between the Luapula and Luvua rivers.\par
ANSWER: Lake \ul\b Mweru\ulnone\b0\par
\par
Your Choice [1/1]\par
\par
The author of this poem wrote of the savage place "beneath a waning moon" haunted by a "woman wailing for her demon-lover!"  Inspired by "Purchas's Pilgrimage", it sees "forests ancient as the hills enfolding sunny spots of greenery" surround the sacred river that runs "through caverns measureless to man."  Caves of ice are seen by a miracle of rare device, and the river Alph meanders through the wood.  Unable to jot down the entire poem since the author was interrupted by a person from Porlock, FTP name this Coleridge poem of "a sunny pleasure-dome" decreed by a ruler of Xanadu.\par
ANSWER: "\ul\b Kubla Khan\ulnone\b0 "\par
\par
Beginning outside the Novodevichy monastery in Moscow with the secretary of state Shchelkalov announcing that the titular character has declined the throne (but accepted it the next day), it ends with Dimitri riding off to claim the throne of Russia after the death of a tsar tormented by conscience.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this opera based on a 24 scene chronicle-play by Aleksandr Pushkin.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Boris Godunov\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Name the composer of \i Boris Godunov\i0 , also known for \i Night on Bald Mountain\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Modest \ul\b Musorgsky\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Name the young monk encouraged by Pimen to impersonate Prince Dimitri, the son of the late tsar killed by Shuisky under Boris Godunov's secret plot.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b Grigori\ulnone\b0  Otrepyev\par
\par
Trash [1/1] \par
\par
It was recalled by a depressed Mariet Ford, who spends prison time for murdering his pregant wife and 3-year old son contemplating it.  It cost the loser a trip to the Hall of Fame Bowl, and Ivan Maisel fondly recalls crowning Mark Harmon the hero for the winning field goal, which turned out to be just the setup.  A joke version of a college newspaper claimed that because Dwight Garner's knee was down, the officials recalled this touchdown scored by Kevin Moen, who took a blind lateral from Ford and knocked over Gary Tyrrell, leading to a 25-20 victory.  Joe Starkey noted that "only a miracle can save the Bears," and a miracle happened, despite the Stanford band on the field.  FTP this famous rugby-style ending to the Cal-Stanford Big Game of 1982.\par
ANSWER: the \ul\b Play\ulnone\b0 ; prompt on "1982 Cal-Stanford"; prompt on "1982 Big Game"\par
\par
Name these episodes of the original \i Star Trek\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  McCoy is accidently injected with cordrazine in this episode, in which Kirk and Spock returns to Depression-era America to stop McCoy from saving Edith Keeler, a Pacifist who would have delayed US entry into World War II and allowed Nazis to win.\par
ANSWER: \i The \ul\b City on the Edge of Forever\ulnone\b0\i0 ; or episode \ul\b 28\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  More fictional drugs abound in this episode in which Kirk looks for an antidote ryetalyn to Rigellian fever, but ends up falling for the android Rayna, who was created by Flint, an immortal who once went by the guises of Galileo and da Vinci.\par
ANSWER: \ul\b\i Requiem for Methuselah\ulnone\b0\i0 ; or episode \ul\b 76\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Cyrano Jones gives the titular creatures to Uhura, who takes them back to the \i Enterprise\i0 , where they eat and multiply in one of the most famous episodes ever.\par
ANSWER: \i The \ul\b Trouble with Tribbles\ulnone\b0\i0 ; or episode \ul\b 42\ulnone\b0\par
\par
}
 