{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 SunNFun-2005\par
Questions by Cal Berkeley (Ray Luo, Andrew Lim).\par
\f1\par
LITERATURE [3/3]\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 A graduate of Imperial Lyceum at Tsarkoye Selo, he accepted an appointment in foreign service in St. Petersburg.  After his "Ode to Liberty" came to the attention of the authorities, he was exiled to the Caucasus, only returning when new tsar Nicholas befriended him.  The long poems \i Poltava\i0  and \i The Bronze Horsemen\i0  drew upon Russian history, while the novel \i The Captain's Daughter\i0  came just before his wife's supposed lover killed him in a duel.  FTP name this author of \i Boris Godunov\i0  and \i Eugene Onegin\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Aleksandr \ul Pushkin\par
\pard\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 "Begin, and cease, and then again begin" the slow "tremulous cadence" of this poem "on a darkling plain swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight."  Fidelity and love are desperately in need, for faith is lying "like the folds of a bright girdle furled."  Where "the tide is full, the moon lies fair upon the straits," and "the sea is calm tonight," FTP name this poem about "the eternal note of sadness" brought in by "the Sea of Faith," by Matthew Arnold.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul Dover Beach\ulnone "\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 When Rocky's boss realizes there was no automobile, he notes "\i something\i0  ran over me; must have been myself."  The son of a preacher from Indiana has found peace, which he hopes to share with everyone by convincing them to take jobs, get married, and stay sober.  Condemned to look at two sides of everything until he dies, Larry Slade is the only convert after the man who killed his wife for forgiving him too much is arrested.  FTP name this Eugene O'Neill play about Hickey at Harry Hope's cafe.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The \ul Iceman Cometh\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these characters associated with Francois Rabelais' creation, Pantagruel.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Fearing nothing but danger, this companion of Pantagruel suffers impecunitis, has trouble deciding whether to marry, then urges Pantagruel to journey to Cathay.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Panurge\ulnone\par
(10)  At the Oracle of the Holy Bottle in Cathay, Pantagruel meets this Pontiff, who gives him a bottle of wine, causing Friar John and Panurge to recite random poetry.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Bacbuc\ulnone\par
(10)  Before breaking the bonds of his cradle, Pantagruel was born to Badebec and this giant, his father, who makes up part of the title of a Francois Rabelais novel.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Gargantua\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Poems by John Keats from lines.  FTPE.\par
(10)  "When old age shall this generation waste, / Thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe / Than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say'st, / 'Beauty is truth, truth beauty,'"\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Ode on a Grecian Urn\ulnone "\par
(10)  "Adieu! the fancy cannot cheat so well / As she is famed to do, deceiving elf. / Adieu! adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades"\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Ode to a Nightingale\ulnone "\par
(10)  "Much have I traveled in the realms of gold, / And many goodly states and kingdoms seen; / Round many western islands have I been / Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold."\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul On First Looking into Chapman's Homer\ulnone "\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Egeus threatens his daughter Hermia with the death penalty if she would not marry Demetrius, having fallen in love with Lysander, who tells her "the \f1 course of true love never did run smooth."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this Shakespeare play where Oberon and Puck make trouble with love potion.\par
\tab Answer: \i A \ul Midsummer Night's Dream\ulnone\i0\f0\par
\f1 (10)  Reasoning that "\f0 love looks not with the eyes but with the mind," this woman from \i A Midsummer Night's Dream\i0  loves Demetrius, who finally returns her love when Puck puts the magic juice in his eyes.\f1\par
\tab Answer: \ul Helena\ulnone\f0\par
\f1 (10)  Snug roars as a lion, Starveling plays the moon, Snout is the wall, and Nick Bottom wants to play every part in this play from \i A Midsummer Night's Dream\i0  directed by Peter Quince.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Pyramus and Thisbe\par
\ulnone\i0\par
SCIENCE [3/3]\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Its growth can be stimulated by applying indoleacetic acid.  An adventitious type forms after a cut and placement in water.  The prop or aerial variety are used by corn and banyan trees for support.  With stele surrounded by a cortex and apical meristem protected by a cap, it can be divided into primary and secondary types and arranged in fibrous or tap systems.  Beets and carrots are examples of, FTP this organ that anchors the plant and takes up water from the soil.\par
\tab Answer: \ul root\ulnone ; prompt on "apical meristem" before it is mentioned\ul\par
\ulnone\par
It is formed indirectly by succinyl-CoA synthetase in the Citric Acid cycle, and by pyruvate kinase and phosphoglycerate kinase in glycolysis.  Fritz Lipmann and Herman Kalckar discovered its role in coupling exergonic to endergonic reactions, in which its hydrolysis liberates 12 kcal/mol of free energy.  A second hydrolysis liberates an adenylate and a greater amount of energy.  FTP name this energy-carrying molecule consisting of an adenine base bound to a ribose attached to three phosphate groups.\par
\tab Answer: \ul a\ulnone denosine \ul t\ulnone ri\ul p\ulnone hosphate\par
\par
By assuming molecules have mass but negligible volume, and elastic collisions, one can relate force to mean-square velocity.  Applying the ideal gas equation to relate pressure, this theory calculates average translational energy to be 3/2 times the Boltzmann constant times temperature.  Root-mean-square velocity, average speed, and most probable speed are related to square-root of temperature by studying molecular dynamics.  Formulated by Born and Maxwell, FTP name this theory of gas motion.\par
\tab Answer: \ul kinetic\ulnone  theory of gases\par
\par
How do you make recombinant DNA?  FTPE.\par
(10)  First, you cut open your two pairs of DNA strands with one of these enzymes, examples of which include BamHI and EcoRI.\par
\tab Answer: \ul restriction\ulnone  enzymes; or \ul restriction endonuclease\ulnone s\par
(10)  Next, make sure the ends of your DNA fragments are this type of staggered cut, rather than blunt ends.\par
\tab Answer: \ul sticky\ulnone  ends\par
(10)  Finally, join your recombinant DNA strands to the target DNA strands by applying this enzyme, which forms covalent bonds to seal each DNA strand.\par
\pard\tab Answer: DNA \ul ligase\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following about electron orbitals.  FTPE.\par
(10)  No orbital may be occupied by more than two electrons and the electrons must differ in the orientation of their intrinsic angular momentum.  This is a consequence of what principle?\par
\tab Answer: \ul Pauli Exclusion\ulnone  principle\par
(10)  Degenerate orbitals are first occupied by one electron each, all of these having the same spin.  What is this rule for degenerate orbital electron assignment?\par
\tab Answer: \ul Hund\ulnone 's rule\par
(10)  The process of adding electrons one by one to the orbitals, starting with those of lowest energy, is known as this principle, German for build up.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Aufbau\ulnone  principle\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these classes of elementary particles.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Composed of quarks bound together by the strong force, this class of particles make up the class of all elementary particles along with leptons and force carriers.\par
\tab Answer: \ul hadron\ulnone\par
(10)  Those containing the strange quark are called hyperons.  Name this class of hadrons composed of three quarks, examples of which include protons and neutrons.\par
\tab Answer: \ul baryon\ulnone\par
(10)  This class of light, spin zero mesons are composed of up and down quark-anti-quark pairs and mediates proton-neutron interations, as discovered by Cecil Powell.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul pion\ulnone ; or \ul pi\ulnone -meson\par
\f1\par
HISTORY [3/3]\par
\par
One might count Winston Churchill among its founding fathers, although Robert Schuman, Rene Pleven, and Jean Monnet are more often credited.  Its body of laws, known as the acquis or acquis communautaire, is divided into 31 chapters, while its structure consists of three pillars, pillars I, II, and III.  Pillars II and III, which encompass foreign policy and national jurisprudence, are intergovernmental in nature, while pillar I, which deals mostly with trade, is federal.  FTP name this organization, which might have seen a bit of a false start with Churchill's 1940 proposal to Reynaud of English-French unification, established for good by the 1992 Treaty of Maastricht.\par
\tab Answer: \ul E\ulnone uropean \ul U\ulnone nion; prompt on "European Commission" before "three pillars" are mentioned\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The loser commander in this battle was hit by the pillar of a house shelled by enemy fire, but refused to relinquish command.  When Union troops feigned an attack on Fredericksburg while marching up the Rappahannock, Lee split his troops, sending the majority toward a house in the forest.  Lee divides the army again, sending Stonewall Jackson into the Wilderness, emerging on Union general Joe Hooker's flank.  FTP name this costly Confederate victory where Jackson was shot by his own men.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Chancellorsville\ulnone\par
\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 It reached a climax at Oudh and Jhansi, where Rani Lakshmibai was killed.  Ending with capture and execution of Tantia Topi, a general of Nana Sahib, it saw a massacre of soldiers under safe passage protection at Cawnpore and a capture of administrative capital Lucknow.  Put down by Hugh Rose and Colin Campbell, it began at Meerut, where troops of the East India Company refused to use Lee-Enfield rifles greased with cow and pig fat.  FTP name this rebellion against British rule led by Indian sipahi.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Sepoy\ulnone  rebellion\par
\f1\par
Nazi atrocities.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This man, the SS "Deputy Protector of Bohemia-Moravia," was assassinated in May 1942 by Czech resistance fighters with the backing of the British Special Operations Executive.\par
\tab Answer: Reinhard \ul Heydrich\ulnone\par
(10)  This Czech village northwest of Prague was destroyed and its citizens massacred in reprisal for the death of Heydrich.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Lidice\ulnone\par
(10)  This small French town in the department of Haute-Vienne was destroyed by the Nazis in June 1944.  The Germans probably confused it with another town of virtually identical name.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Oradour-sur-Glanes\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following about the presidency of William Howard Taft.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Taft dismissed this head of the US Forestry Service, who had accused Richard A. Ballinger of allowing private companies to take reserved land areas in Alaska.\par
\tab Answer: Gifford \ul Pinchot\ulnone\par
(10)  Taft reluctantly signed this tariff that actually raised duties on many products, but made a railroad tour around the country supporting it.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Payne-Aldrich\ulnone  Tariff\par
(10)  With secretary of state Philander C. Knox, Taft pursued this policy of promoting US investment abroad in places like China and the Panama Canal.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Dollar Diplomacy\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The sword found at Sainte-Catherine-de-Fierbois and the production of eggs at Vaucouleurs are miracles attributed to this saint.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Canonized by Benedict XV, name this maid who told her examiners at Poitiers that she would give proof of her mission at Orleans, which she took with La Hire.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Jeanne d'Arc\ulnone ; or \ul Joan of Arc\par
\ulnone (10)  A member of the Armagnacs, the dauphin was crowned this king at Reims thanks to Joan of Arc.  He later promulgated the Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Charles VII\ulnone\par
(10)  Son of John the Fearless, this duke of Burgundy aligned himself with Henry VI of England before signing the treaty of Arras with Charles VII.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Philip the Good\par
\ulnone\f1\par
RECENT EVENTS [1/1]\par
\par
Planning for this raid had originally incorporated F-4 Phantoms, but newly acquired F-16s took their place.  Accordingly, eight Falcons took off from Etzion Air Base at 4:40 PM local time and crossed their country's eastern border.  They were detected by Jordanian radar, but managed to convince Jordanian air controllers in perfect Arabic that they were, in fact, Jordanian aircraft.  Barely two hours after takeoff, the Falcons struck their target with several one-ton bombs; the only casualty was a French technician working inside the target structure.  FTP name this June 7, 1981 Israeli raid on Iraq's attempt to build a nuclear reactor.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Osirak\ulnone\par
\par
Name these recent election losers, none of whom is John Kerry.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This Spanish leader of the Partido Popular was on course for another term as Prime Minister until he attempted, before all the evidence was in, to blame the March 11, 2004 bombing of the Atocha train station on Basque separatists ETA.\par
\tab Answer: Jose Maria \ul Aznar\ulnone\par
(10)  This German conservative, leader of the Bavarian Christian Social Union, represented both the CSU and its national sister party, the CDU, in 2002 German elections.  He won nearly as many votes as incumbent Gerhard Schroeder, but the weak showing of his prospective coalition partners, the FDP, doomed him to defeat.\par
\tab Answer: Edmund \ul Stoiber\ulnone\par
(10)  This Australian Labour Party leader tried to capitalize on the unpopularity of the Iraq war, but was portrayed as too brash and inexperienced for the job by Conservative incumbent John Howard.\par
\tab Answer: Mark \ul Latham\ulnone\par
\par
POPULAR CULTURE SPORTS [2/2]\par
\par
Among his ancestors were a French sailor at the Battle of Trafalgar, a Spanish soldier involved in the crushing of the Pueblo revolt in 1692, and--less bloodily--a Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, while he himself was a noted amateur archaeologist, occasionally publishing scientific papers on the subject.  His father, however, was a traditionalist vintner who disapproved of technology and, by extension, the career that his younger son chose.  FTP name this man, the first freshman to win the Academy marathon, captain of the Enterprise-D.\par
\tab Answer: Jean-Luc \ul Picard\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The main character of this film pretends to be a Princeton graduate whose former lover Nelly caused him to lose all sensations of love.  He later witnesses Little Bonaparte popping out of a cake to gun down Spatz Colombo, but escapes to the yacht with his partner, the bass player Jerry, who's engaged to millionaire Osgood, despite his revelation as an imperfect male.  FTP name this Billy Wilder film in which Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon pose as female musicians infatuated with Marilyn Monroe.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Some Like It Hot\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
Given the city from \i Lord of the Rings\i0 , name the hill or mountain on which it is built.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Minas Tirith.\par
\tab Answer: Mount \ul Mindolluin\ulnone\par
(10)  Caras Galadhon.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Cerin Amroth\ulnone\par
(10)  Gondolin.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Amon Gwareth\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Given the description of a secret, identify the game from the \i Final Fantasy \i0 series in which it is uncovered.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Keep breeding chocobos until you get the gold one.  Then ride it to the northwestern cave to discover the most incredible secret treasure yet: the Knights of the Round materia.\par
\tab Answer: FF\ul 7\ulnone\par
(10)  Don't leave the Floating Continent so quickly.  Wait until the ninja joins you.  Then in the World of Ruins, visit the Colosseum and bet the Striker to find the secret character Shadow again.\par
\tab Answer: FF\ul 6\ulnone ; accept FF\ul 3\ulnone\par
(10)  The big secret is that the main character of the game is actually the son of Laguna.  This doesn't come out explicitly, but talk to Kiros and Ward.  They'll tell you all about it.\par
\pard\tab Answer: FF\ul 8\par
\ulnone\f1\par
FINE ARTS [2/2]\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Some say that the plot of this opera originated from Emperor Joseph II's Turkish campaigns, in which he remembered the incident and asked his court poet and chamber composer to realize it.  The title of this comically pessimistic opera comes from Don Basilio's aria in \i Le Nozze di Figaro\i0  that begins with "That's what all the pretty girls do, there's nothing new in that."  FTP what is this music drama by da Ponte and Mozart celebrating the infidelity of women?\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Cosi fan tutte\ulnone ,\i0  \i ossia La scuola degli amanti\i0 ; or \ul\i All Women do it\ulnone , or The School for Lovers\par
\i0\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Lawson and Clutton debate the merits of this painting in \i Of Human Bondage\i0 .  The faces of the maid and the cat are inseparable from the black background, except the white of the eyes.  A woman with sandals on her feet and orchids in her hair has nothing on but a black ribbon and a bracelet, and stares disdainfully at the viewer, ignoring the bouquet presented by her black maid.  Depicting the guitarist and model Victorine Meurend in bed with a hand on her privates, FTP name this Edouard Manet painting.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Olympia\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
Name the composer.  30-20-10.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 (30)  He was head of the State Music Bureau and took over for Toscanini at Bayreuth.  Frustrated at being unable to work with his Jewish librettist, Stefan Zweig, he protected his Jewish daughter-in-law and lived in Vienna for a time.\par
(20)  When Germany was defeated and her opera houses destroyed, he spent a golden Indian summer composing an oboe concerto, the 23-string lamentation \i Metamorphosen\i0 , and \i Four Last Songs\i0 , which looked to Mozart for consolation.\par
(10)  He wrote tone poems like \i Death and Transfiguration\i0 , \i Don Juan\i0 , and \i Also Sprach Zarathustra\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \ul Richard Strauss\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\par
\f0 He designed Nestle Headquarters, El Paso Tower, and Indiana University Museum.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this architect of Luce Memorial in Taiwan and Beijing's Fragrant Hill Hotel, who, though born in Guangzhou, China, studied at MIT and taught at Harvard.\par
\tab Answer: Ieoh Ming \ul Pei\ulnone\par
(10)  Pei designed the glass pyramid entrance, which can be found next to some fountains, as well as the Richelieu wing of this museum.\par
\tab Answer: the \ul Louvre\ulnone\par
(10)  In 1989, Pei's firm completed the Bank of China, a landmark in this city.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Hong Kong\ulnone ; or \ul Xiang Gang\par
\ulnone\f1\par
RELIGION MYTHOLOGY PHILOSOPHY [2/2]\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Commemorating the purging of an altar to Zeus and a one-day supply of olive oil that lasted for over a week, this holiday is the only time games of chance are permitted, such as spinning of dreidel, each side of which indicates a prize with a different letter, which together make up the phrase "a great miracle happened here."  Taking place on the 25th day of Kislev, it celebrates the defeat of Antiochus IV by giving away gelt and latkes, as well as lighting the 8-candle menorah.  Commemorating Judas Maccabee's rededication of Temple of Jerusalem, FTP name this festival of lights.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Hanukkah\ulnone ; or \ul Chanukah\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Rescued when Ea sent hermaphrodite Asushu-Namir down with life water, this deity is sometimes married to the god of date palm.  Part of a triad with Sin and Shamash, this daughter of Anu appeared naked to Ereshkigal after looking for her lover Tammuz, throwing away each of her 7 pieces of clothing to pass through each gate.  After rejected by Gilgamesh, she asked her dad to send the bull of heaven against him.  FTP name this Babylonian goddess of war and love known to Canaanites as Astarte.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Ishtar\ulnone ; or \ul Inanna\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 With his army commander Phicol, he made an agreement with Abraham to let him stay at the land of the Philistines after an argument over a well of water.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this king of Gerar whose wife and servants were afflicted with not being able to have children as a punishment for taking Abraham's wife.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Abimelech\ulnone\par
(10)  Abraham told everybody that this wife of his is only his sister, which is also true.  As a result, Abimelech took her, had a bad dream, and gave her back.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Sarah\ulnone ; or \ul Sarai\ulnone\par
(10)  Sarah gave birth to this son of Abraham named for the Hebrew for "he laughed," because Abraham was a whopping 100 years old when she gave birth to him.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Isaac\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Laboring until his death on the fragments of \i Transition from the Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science to Physics\i0 , which attempted to construct a priori not only the outline of a science of nature, but much of its details, his last words were "It is good."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this German inventor of the categorical imperative.\par
\tab Answer: Immanuel \ul Kant\ulnone\par
(10)  Kant was awakened from his dogmatic slumbers by this man, a Scottish Skeptic.\par
\tab Answer: David \ul Hume\ulnone\par
(10)  In his essay \i Dreams of a Spirit-Seer\i0 , Kant inquired into the spiritualist claims of this man, a Swedish theologian whose followers founded churches of the New Jerusalem.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Emanuel \ul Swedenborg\par
\ulnone\f1\par
SOCIAL SCIENCES [1/1]\par
\par
\f0 After teaching secondary schools at Sens, Saint-Quentin, and Troyes, he researched in Germany for a year, and came under the influence of Wilhelm Wundt.  His courses at Bordeaux are published as \i Pedagogical Evolution in France\i0 .  Sometimes considered a functionalist, he did little field work, like his nephew Marcel Mauss.  Noting that prosperity unleashed the passions that disturbed social equilibrium, he wrote \i The Elementary Forms of Relgious Life\i0 .  FTP name this sociologist who described anomie.\par
\tab Answer: Emile \ul Durkheim\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name these American psychologists.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In his \i Language, Culture, and Personality\i0 , this linguistic psychologist claimed that language shapes the way we think, an idea advanced by Benjamin Whorf.\par
\tab Answer: Edward \ul Sapir\ulnone\par
(10)  An advocate of connectionism between stimuli and satisfactory responses, this author of \i Animal Intelligence\i0  formulated the laws of exercise and effect.\par
\tab Answer: Edward Lee \ul Thorndike\ulnone\par
(10)  Kicked out of Stanford for his populist views, this social psychologist wrote \i Social Control\i0  and \i Social Psychology\i0 , and advocated social reform.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Edward Alsworth \ul Ross\ulnone\f1\par
\par
GEOGRAPHY [1/1]\par
\par
Established in 1300 by Diego Lopez de Haro, ruler of Vizcaya, this city soon outdistanced its neighboring competitors as an exporter of wool to England and the Low Countries.  Today, iron ore is the chief export, most of it going to Great Britain.  Along the way, the commercial code of the city became the model for the commercial law of Spain and several Latin American countries, while the city itself was sacked by the French in 1808, unsuccessfully besieged by the Carlists in 1835 and 1836, and besieged and captured by Nationalist forces in 1937.  FTP name this capital of Spain's Biscay province, lying on the Nervion River 8 miles from its mouth on the Bay of Biscay, and home to Frank Gehry's Guggenheim.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Bilbao\ulnone\par
\par
\f0 Name these rivers of eastern Europe.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Beginning in the Black Forest, it flows past Linz, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, forming the border between Romania and Bulgaria before emptying into the Black Sea.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Danube\ulnone\par
(10)  Rising in the Carpathians near northern Slovakia, it flows east into Krakow, then north into Warsaw, and northwest to Gdansk, splitting into the Baltic Sea.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Vistula\ulnone ; or \ul Wisla\ulnone\par
(10)  Formed west of Moscow in Valday Hills, it flows into Smolensk, south to Kiev, passing the Pripet Marshes, and empties into the Black Sea just east of Odessa.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Dnieper\ulnone\f1\par
\par
YOUR CHOICE [4/4]\f0\par
\f1\par
It is structured as a classical oration, with proem, proposition, proof and refutation, digression, and peroration, though its author never meant it to be delivered orally.  Although it expresses a distinct intolerance for "tolerated popery"--Roman Catholicism--its more general argument for freedom of speech is acknowledged to have transcended the politico-religious conflicts of the time.  Originally written as a response to the Licensing Order of 1643, FTP name this prose tract of John Milton, in which he implored, "Give me the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue freely according to conscience, above all other liberties," named for the court of the Areopagus in Athens.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Areopagitica\ulnone\i0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Although in his youth he wrote an anti-Jeffersonian pamphlet called \i The Embargo\i0 , he never-the-less became a Democrat and a strong champion of Andrew Jackson.  An influential advocate of Abraham Lincoln, he is better known as an editor of the \i Evening Post\i0  who shared his experiences abroad with the American people in \i Letters of a Traveller\i0  and \i Letters from the East\i0 .  His most famous work is a meditation on death and "To a Waterfowl."  FTP name this American poet who wrote "Thanatopsis."\par
\pard\tab Answer: William Cullen \ul Bryant\ulnone\f1\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 A planned set of six sonatas was cut short by this composer's death from rectal cancer.  Famous for his images of Iberia, he collaborated with Nijinsky on a ballet about a tennis-player who can't decide which of two girls to flirt with, titled \i Jeux\i0 .  Composer of chamber works like \i Ariettes oubliees\i0  and \i Syrinx\i0 , he set to music poems by Villon, Verlain, and Baudelaire.  FTP name this French composer of \i Petite Suite\i0 , the symphonic poem \i La mer\i0 , and \i Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun\i0 , an impressionist.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Claude \ul Debussy\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 The distinction between good and evil was originally between the privileged and the base.  To combat the connection between the powerful and the good, the weak suggested that "the meek would inherit the earth."  Pride becomes a sin while charity and modesty supplanted competition and independence.  The slaves rebelled against the masters and insisted on the absolute righteousness of their ethics.  FTP this is how Friedrich Nietzsche describes the beginning of what ethical laws?\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i On the Genealogy of \ul Moral\ulnone\i0 s; or \i Zur Genealogie der \ul Moral\par
\ulnone\i0\f1\par
Give the Milton poem from lines.  FTPE.\par
(10)  "At last he rose, and twitch'd his Mantle blew: / To morrow to fres Woods, and Pastures new."\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Lycidas\ulnone "\par
(10)  "When they shall read this clearly in your charge / New Presbyter is but Old Priest writ Large."\par
\tab Answer: "On the \ul new forcers of Conscience\ulnone  under the Long Parliament"\par
(10)  "But O as to embrace me she enclin'd, / I wak'd, she fled, and day brought back my night."\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Methought I saw\ulnone  my late espoused Saint"; prompt on "Sonnet 23"\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following about the nucleus.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This protein meshwork maintains the shape of the nucleus by attaching to both chromatin and the nuclear envelope.  It depolymerizes during nuclear division.\par
\tab Answer: nuclear \ul lamina\ulnone\par
(10)  This surrounds the chromatin in the nucleus.  It consists of water and dissolved substances whose analog outside the nucleus is the cytoplasm.\par
\tab Answer: \ul nucleoplasm\ulnone\par
(10)  These spherical bodies in the nucleus are the sites of ribosomal subunit assembly.  They contain ribosomal RNA and specific proteins.  They disappear during cell division.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul nucleoli\ulnone ; or \ul nucleolus\par
\ulnone\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Answer the following about Spanish conquistadores.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This ironfisted conquistador crushed the Peruvian Incas in 1532.\par
\tab Answer: Francisco \ul Pizarro\ulnone\par
(10)  Indian slaves were put to work digging up silver at this mine in New Spain (present day Bolivia).\par
\tab Answer: \ul Potosi\ulnone\par
(10)  Intermarriage among invaders and natives created these people of mixed European and Indian heritage.\par
\tab Answer: \ul mestizo\ulnone s\par
\pard\f1\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\f0 Name the following systems of Japanese writing.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The syllabary used for loan words and special effects similar to italics in European writing.\par
\tab Answer: \ul katakana\ulnone\par
(10)  Ideographic characters borrowed from Chinese symbols used to represent noun and verb roots.\par
\tab Answer: \ul kanji\ulnone\par
(10)  The syllabary used for native words that can occur in the same word as kanji, used, for example, to indicate inflection.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul hiragana\par
\ulnone\f1\par
}
 