{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs20 Technophobia 10, 2005.\par
Packet by UCLA.\par
Questions by Jimmy Dunn, Ray Luo, Charles Meigs.\par
\par
4/4 science\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar This process is preceeded by transport carried out by an acyltransferase inhibited by malonyl coA, as carnitine carries the transesterified acyl coA into the mitochondrial matrix.  Methylmalonyl coA epimerase, biotin, and a B_12 derived mutase are needed to convert propionyl coA to succinyl coA if an odd number of carbons are involved, while enoyl coA isomerase and 2,4-dienoyl coA reductase are needed to convert cis to trans isomers of polyunsaturated carboxylates.  Carried out by bears in hibernation, FTP name this series of acetyl coA abstractions that attacks the carbon 3 of fatty acids.\par
\tab Answer: \ul beta oxidation\ulnone\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar 120 degree rotations about a single bond is mimicked by an even number of substituent exchanges in this structure that always return the original absolute configuration.  Placing the lowest priority group at the top by an even number of exchanges allows us to determine the R or S configuration.  An odd number of exchanges or a rotation by 90 degrees yields the molecule's enantiomer.  Horizontal lines are bonds directed toward the viewer while vertical lines are pointing away; their intersection is the central carbon.  FTP name this projection invented by a University of Berlin chemist.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Fischer\ulnone  projection\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar An inverse of the photoelectric effect, it can be used to accurately measure h/e.  For a given incident energy, this process gives rise to a minimum wavelength equal to Planck's constant times the speed of light divided by the product of the applied voltage and the electron charge.  In a typical experiment, a continuous x-ray spectrum is emitted from a tungsten target for a given incident electron energy.  Taking place with cosmic rays in the van Allen belt, and wherever fast electrons collide with matter, FTP name this process, German for braking radiation.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul bremsstrahlung\ulnone  process\par
\par
Jocelyn Bell and Antony Hewish discovered these in 1967, and were first thought by scientists to be evidence of extraterrestrial life.  They occur because of the misalignment of magnetic fields and rotational axes.  Their unusually strong magnetic fields guide radiation into two beams on either side, and when viewed from the right angle, will produce periodic flashes of light.  FTP what are these specific types of neutron stars, often referred to as astronomical lighthouses because of their periodic blinking?\par
\tab Answer: \ul pulsar\ulnone s\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these structures encountered by an axon from the retina.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The axons exit via the blind spot to the optic stalk, which takes them to this structure, where nasal axons cross over to the contralateral side while temporal axons remain ipsilateral, responsible for the remapping of the visual field.\par
\tab Answer: optic \ul chiasm\ulnone\par
(10)  The axons from the optic chiasm travel via the optic tract to this structure of the thalamus to be sorted, maintaining the topographical map, but a few branch off to the superior colliculus, the pulvinar nucleus, and the pretectal nucleus.\par
\tab Answer: \ul lateral geniculate\ulnone  nucleus\par
(10)  The lateral geniculate nucleus relays the retinal axon singals via other connections that terminate mostly in this lobe of the brain at the back of the head.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul occipital\ulnone  lobe\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The world according to equipartition of energy.  FTSNOP.\par
(5)  How many rotational degrees of freedom does a diatomic molecule possess?\par
\tab Answer: \ul 2\ulnone  (rotation about internuclear axis doesn't change position)\par
(5)  What is the molar internal energy of a system of diatomic gas, in terms of RT, given 3 translational and 2 vibrational degrees of freedom for a diatomic molecule?\par
\tab Answer: \ul 7/2\ulnone  (3/2 for translation, 1 for rotation, 1 for vibration)\par
(10)  What extensive property is defined as the derivative of the internal energy with respect to temperature at constant volume conditions?\par
\tab Answer: \ul heat capacity\ulnone\par
(10)  The measured heat capacities of diatomic and polyatomic gases are smaller than predicted at room temperature, because vibrational energy levels are spaced far apart and makes negligible contribution to heat capacity.  Name the distribution that governs the ratio of populations in any 2 energy levels, named after a German.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Boltzmann\ulnone  distribution\par
\par
Answer these questions about our universe.  FTPE.\par
(10)  The most popular theory about the creation of the universe among modern scientists, it states that the universe started as an infinitely dense singularity and then expanded.\par
\tab Answer: \ul big bang\par
\ulnone (10)  This phenomenon, in which astronomers use telescopes to look into the deepest regions of the universe and find uniform radiation in all directions, is some of the best evidence we have of the big bang.\par
\tab Answer: \ul cosmic background\ulnone  radiation\par
(10)  In November 1989, NASA launched this microwave telescope to observe cosmic background radiation.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\-COBE\ulnone ; or \ul Cosmic Background Explorer\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify the theorem in mathematical logic given statement and proof.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Statement: "If A and B derives C, then A derives the sentence 'B implies C.'"  Proof: By induction on the number of derivations of C from A and B.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Deduction\ulnone  theorem\par
(10)  Statement: "There are true arithmetic sentences that cannot be proved."  Proof: By extending first-order logic to allow for the mathematical induction schema in arithmetic.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Godel\ulnone 's theorem; or \ul Incompleteness\ulnone  theorem\par
(10)  Statement: "If a set of clauses S is unsatisfiable, then there exists a finite subset of the saturation of S with respect to its universe that is also unsatisfiable."  Proof: Beyond the scope of this question.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Herbrand\ulnone 's theorem\par
\par
4/4 history\par
\par
Among his running mates was former New York Tribune publisher Whitelaw Reid, and a famous recording of him was made by Giuseppe Bettini.  He earned the nickname "Kid Gloves" during his Indiana gubernatorial campaign due to his wearing of gloves to protect against skin infection.  Later in life, he represented Venezuela in a boundary dispute with Britain, and his presidency saw a grand total of six states admitted to the union.  His jingoistic tendencies led him to submit a treaty to annex Hawaii, later repudiated by his successor.  Known for signing the Sherman Anti-Trust into law, FTP name this president whose successor was also his predecessor, serving from 1889-1893.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Benjamin Harrison\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar They departed for Holland in 1608, only to make a more difficult trip 12 years later, on which a new member was born and given the name Oceanus.  Prominent among them was the so-called "Captain Shrimp," the fortune hunter Myles Standish, and a scholarly future governor who read Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French, and Dutch.  Before merging with their larger Northern neighbor in 1691, they survived the first winter of 1621, when 58 of 102 died.  Landing in an area outside the Virginia charter, FTP name this group of Separatists who sailed upon the \i Mayflower\i0  for America.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Pilgrim\ulnone s; or \ul Plymouth\ulnone  colonists\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He promoted the Ordonnance criminelle and the Code noir, and founded the arsenals of Toulon and Rochefort.  Once Baron of Seignelay, he got the king to witness a festival at Vaux-le-Vicomte, leading him to arrest the extravagant Nicolas Fouquet.  Opposing the Edict of Fontainebleau on account of the merchant class, he instituted the taille and protective tariffs against the Dutch, and became secretary of state for the navy.  Raised to power by the dying Cardinal Mazarin, FTP name this promulgator of mercantilism, the director of finance for Louis XIV.\par
\tab Answer: Jean-Baptiste \ul Colbert\ulnone\par
\pard\par
Born Ma Sanbao, he completed the pilgrimage to Mecca and became known thereafter as Hajji Mahmoud.  He was a descent of a Yuan governor from modern day Uzbekistan, and was born in Yunnan province.  Castrated upon the Ming conquest of Yunnan, he served under the Yongle, Hongxi, and Xuande emperors.  King Alagonakkara of Ceylon was brought back to China by this man after an expedition to the island.  He traveled as far as East Africa, and at its height, his fleet reached nearly 30,000 men and 300 ships.  FTP name this Chinese explorer during the Ming Dynasty.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Zheng\ulnone  He; or \ul Cheng\ulnone  Ho\ul\par
\ulnone\par
Name these members of Truman cabinets.  FTPE.\par
(10)  He served as Secretary of Treasury for one brief year in Truman's cabinet before being appointed in 1946 to be Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.\par
\tab Answer: Fred(erick) Moore \ul Vinson\ulnone\par
(10)  This man served as Secretary of State during Truman's second term and during the time of the Korean War.\par
\tab Answer: Dean Gooderham \ul Acheson\ulnone\par
(10)  A holdover from President Roosevelt's fourth term, this Secretary of Commerce was fired by Truman.  He was better known for his being vice president during Roosevelt's third term.\par
\tab Answer: Henry Agard \ul Wallace\par
\ulnone\par
Name these Roman emperors who ruled after the death of Marcus Aurelius.  FTPE.\par
(10)  He succeeded his father, Marcus Aurelius, and after reputedly recording 12,000 kills as a gladiator and re-naming Rome, he was strangled by a wrestler.\par
\tab Answer: Marcus (or Lucius) Aurelius \ul Commodus\ulnone  Antoninus\par
(10)  Rome's crown was his after an offer of 25,000 sestertii to every soldier in the Roman army.  He ruled for barely over two months, succeeding the brief reign of Pertinax.\par
\tab Answer: Marcus Severus \ul Didius Julianus\par
\ulnone (10)  This emperor, born in present-day Libya, emerged out of the chaos to defeat his rival Clodius Albinus, ruling for a rather long eighteen year period.\par
\tab Answer: Lucius \ul Septimius Severus\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He obtained recognition of the order of Knights Templar and supported Innocent II against Anacletus II for the papacy.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this author of \i De Diligendo Deo\i0  and \i De Consideratione\i0  who led the founding of 90 Cistercian monasteries under the auspices of his namesake.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Bernard of Clairvaux\ulnone\par
(10)  Bernard aroused the enthusiasm of Louis VII and others by delivering a speech at Vezelay in support of this crusade.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Second\ulnone  Crusade\par
(10)  At a council at Sens, Bernard condemned this founder of the Paraclete and author of \i Historia Calamitatum\i0  for his rationalistic teachings, though his love for Fulbert's niece Heloise had nothing to do with it.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Peter \ul Abelard\ulnone\par
\par
Answer these questions about a notable event in Jewish anti-British sentiment before the partition of Palestine.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This 5-star hotel in Jerusalem, once a refuge for exiles such as Haile Selassie and a potent symbol of British imperialism, was famously bombed by the group Irgun (EAR-GOON) in 1946, killing 91.\par
\tab Answer: \ul King David\ulnone  hotel\par
(10)  The attack was ordered by Moshe Sneh, chief of the general headquarters of this paramilitary organization that takes its name from Hebrew for "the defense."\par
\tab Answer: \ul Haganah\ulnone\par
(10)  The leader of Irgun at the time was this Byelorussian-born man, who would later be ousted from office after a failed invasion of Lebanon and a Nobel Peace Prize.\par
\tab Answer: Menachem \ul Begin\par
\ulnone\par
4/4 literature\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar James Moggridge is the traveling salesman who dies in this story because the author observes him stepping off the train.  Hilda is the sister who must now be confronted; unfortunately, she never materializes.  Minnie Marsh is an old lady who is scraping the railway window and praying to God because she supposedly committed a terrible crime that the author can't quite come up with.  She twitches and exclaims that "eggs are cheaper," to the dismay of the author, who envisions her as much more lonesome and sinful.  Moving between imagination and reality in the process of writing, FTP name this Virginia Woolf work that never gets realized.\par
\tab Answer: \i An \ul Unwritten Novel\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He compares his mode of communication with "a magic lantern" throwing "the nerves in patterns on a screen."  Once an attendant lord and once Lazarus, he wonders whether to part his hair behind or dare to eat a peach.  Noting that "this is not what I meant at all," he begins a monologue after a quote of Guido da Montefeltro from Dante's \i Inferno\i0 .  Measuring out his life with coffee spoons, he is made fun of for his bald spot and thin arms and legs by women coming and going, talking of Michelangelo.  FTP name this subject of a love song by T. S. Eliot.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "The Love Song of J. Alfred \ul Prufrock\ulnone "\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His stories are collected in \i I Don't Need You Any More\i0 , and he wrote a novel about anti-Semitism titled \i Focus\i0 .  Author of \i The Archbishop's Ceiling\i0  and \i The Creation of the World and Other Business\i0 , he produced \i The Grass Still Grows\i0  while a student at Michigan, and worked on \i Chinese Encounters\i0  with his 3rd wife, photographer Inge Morath.  \i The Man Who Had All the Luck\i0  and \i A View from the Bridge\i0  appeared before his screenplay for \i Misfits\i0 , written for his 2nd wife, Marilyn Monroe.  FTP name this dramatist who modeled Willy Loman after his father in \i Death of a Salesman\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Arthur \ul Miller\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His most notable collaborator was Auguste Maquet.  Son of Marquis de la Pailleterie and a Santo Domingo black woman, he was virtually bankrupt upon his death, despite financing his extravagant lifestyle with plays like \i Christine\i0 , \i Antony\i0 , \i Catherine Howard\i0 , and the melodrama \i Henry III et sa cour\i0 .  His novels include \i The Black Tulip\i0  and \i The Viscount of Bragelonne\i0  and his very different son wrote \i La dame aux camelias\i0 .  FTP name this French author of \i Twenty Years After\i0  and \i The Three Musketeers\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Alexandre \ul Dumas pere\ulnone ; accept "Dumas the elder" and "Dumas the father"\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Novels by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Civil servant Yakov Petrovich Golyadkin takes on another image in order to pursue the daughter of his employer, but is eventually taken to a lunatic asylum.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Dvoinik\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Double\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Serialized in \i Vremya\i0 , it relates life in a Siberian prison, and is based on Dostoyevsky's experiences in an Omsk labor camp.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Zapiski iz mertvogodoma\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul House of the Dead\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Divided into two parts, it begins with a philosophical monologue and goes on to illustrate the absurdity of progress via reason, as told by an irrational narrator.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Zapiski iz podpolya\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Notes from Underground\ulnone\i0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Settlers of Concord find their avarice for land cooled just "like lust in the chill of the grave" after hearing the Earth-song in his poem "Hamatreya."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this transcendentalist poet whose collection \i May Day\i0  contained poems published in \i Atlantic Monthly\i0  and \i The Dial\i0 , which he edited after Margaret Fuller.\par
\tab Answer: Ralph Waldo \ul Emerson\ulnone\par
(10)  "By the rude bridge that arched the flood, their flag to April's breeze unfurled," begins this Emerson song sung at the completion of a battle monument.  "Here once the embattled farmers stood and fired the shot heard round the world."\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Concord Hymn\ulnone "\par
(10)  Brought here by "the self-same Power that brought me there," the titular rival of the rose is told by Emerson to reply that "if eyes were made for seeing, then Beauty is its own excuse for being," on being asked, whence is the flower?\par
\tab Answer: "The \ul Rhodora\ulnone "\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The titular characters play imaginary tennis with a game of questions, allowing no repetitions, no rhetoric, and no statements.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Also the announcement made by the English ambassador at the end of \i Hamlet\i0 , name this absurdist play by Tom Stoppard about two men summoned to Elsinore.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  The Player notes that in his experience, almost everything ends in this, and prescribes it for all ages and occasions, coming back after a thousand casual ones.\par
\tab Answer: \ul death\ulnone\par
(10)  Rosencrantz notes that death could possibly be one of this, and notes he has frequently not been on one.  Guildenstern wants to spend the rest of his life on one.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul boat\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His stories are collected in \i East, West\i0  and \i Haroun and the Sea of Stories\i0 , and his essays are found in \i Imaginary Homelands\i0 .  FTPE.\par
(10)  His \i The Jaguar Smile\i0  and \i Shame\i0  are about Nicaragua and Pakistan respectively.  Name this Indian novelist best known for attacking Islam in \i The Satanic Verses\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Salman \ul Rushdie\ulnone\par
(10)  This Booker prize winner by Rushdie is about Shiva and Saleem Sinai, both born on August 15, 1947 and switched at birth.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Midnight's Children\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Rai Merchant narrates this tale of love between musician Ormus Cana and his lead singer Vina Aspara, who gets swallowed up in 1989.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i The \ul Ground Beneath Her Feet\par
\ulnone\i0\par
2/2 geography\par
\par
This region remained a British protectorate until 1861, when it was taken by its current possessor.  Home to an obscure monarchy consisting of among others, two Oldmans, two Jeremies, a Peter and an Edward, it is defined by a series of lagoons, the largest of which is the Laguna de Perlas.  Oddly to its east lie islands primarily owned by Colombia, though the Islas del Maiz belong to the same nation as this region.  Among the rivers that meet the ocean in this region, the largest is the Rio Grande de Matagalpa and the largest cities are the provincial capitals Puerto Cabezas and Bluefields.  FTP name this scarely populated and primarily Creole region of eastern Nicaragua.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Mosquito\ulnone ; or \ul Miskito Coast\par
\ulnone\par
Its current borders were once home to the cities of Dekhistan, Merv, and Konye-Urgench, though all three were thoroughly trashed by the Mongol invasions.  Its main geographic features include the southern part of Lake Sarykamish and the large Garabogaz basin, and the Kopet Dag mountains near the capital.  Though travel in this country is impeded by the large Karakum Desert, crossing the country from the city formerly known as Charjew in the east to the former Krasnovodsk in the west costs a measly $3, due to government subsidies.  Bounded on the west by the Caspian Sea, this is, FTP which Central Asian country with its capital at Ashgabat.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Turkmenistan\par
\ulnone\par
Name these rivers of Louisiana.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This river, forming most of the Texas-Oklahoma border, flows through the major Louisiana cities of Shreveport and Alexandria before emptying into the Mississippi.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Red\ulnone  River of the South\par
(10)  Part of this river, whose name comes from the Spanish for cypress, is the long Toledo Bend Reservoir, and it forms the southwestern border of Louisiana with Texas.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Sabine\ulnone  River\par
(10)  Louisiana's border with the Mississippi panhandle runs along the course of this river, which empties into Lake Borgne and features Bogalusa and Jackson, Mississippi on its banks.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Pearl\ulnone  River\par
\par
Given a historical name of a European city, name the country of which that city is the present capital.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Pressburg.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Slovakia\ulnone\par
(10)  Laibach.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Slovenia\ulnone\par
(10)  Tehran.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Albania\par
\ulnone\par
2/2 fine arts\par
\par
He saw circle as the image of divine reason and proscribed derivatives of circle for the central planned church.  He created the triple facade of San Francesco, only the central one of which is niched, for Sigismondo Malatesta of Rimini, and combined the Roman triumphal arch motif with the Classical temple facade in San Andrea of Mantua.  Papal secretary to Eugene IV and Nicholas V, he rebuilt Saint Peter's, and designed Palazzo Rucellai and Santa Maria Novella.  FTP name this Genoan architect who wrote \i Della pittura\i0  and \i De re aedificatoria\i0 , and applied Brunelleschi's linear perspective.\par
\tab Answer: Leone Battista \ul Alberti\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Alfonse vows that the next film should be called \i A Lovely Mess\i0 .  Dedicated to Dorothy and Lilian Gish, it contains a "love scene" for Julie and Alexandre, who later claims "women are magical but not all of them."  The love-sick Alfonse is comforted by Julie Baker, the star of this film, although he claims that "life is more important than cinema."  The director Ferrand dreams of tearing down a poster of \i Citizen Kane\i0 , and later reassures the physician doctor of Julie, who is played by Jacqueline Bisset.  FTP name this film starring and directed by Francois Truffaut named for an American way of shooting evening scenes.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i La \ul nuit americaine\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Day for Night\ulnone\i0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Tone poems by Jean Sibelius.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Originally conceived as the prelude to the opera \i The Building of the Boat\i0 , this section from four Legends of the \i Kalevala\i0  depicts the black river of death in Finnish mythology on which the titular creature, played by English horn, glides along.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Swan of Tuonela\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Commissioned by Walter Damrosch, this last major work of Sibelius depicts the domain of the god of the Northland's dusky forests from the \i Kalevala\i0 , full of wood sprites and, quoting from the score's preface, "brooding savage dreams."\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Tapiola\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  A response to domination of Tsarist Russia, this patriotic piece for a national demonstration is a three-movement work beginning with andante sostenuto and ending with an affirming allegro, originally to accompany the poem "The Melting."\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Finlandia\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His late paintings were actually religious, including \i Crucifixion\i0  and \i The Sacrament of the Last Supper\i0 , but he is more famous for commercial surrealist paintings.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this artist who wrote the dreamy \i Diary of a Genius\i0 , designed the sets for Hitchcock's \i Spellbound\i0 , and filmed \i Un chien andalou\i0  with Luis Bunuel.\par
\tab Answer: Salvador \ul Dali\ulnone\par
(10)  Based on \i The Garden of Earthly Delights\i0 , this Dali painting contains a slab on the upper left, cliffs on the upper right, and timepieces feasted on by ants, hanging on a tree, slipping off a block, and lying on top of an amorphous shape.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Persistence of Memory\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  An elephant with long-ass limbs flies across the top of this Dali painting also featuring a rifle pointed at the arm of a naked woman thinking of tigers coming out of the mouth of a fish, which comes out of the titular fruit surrounded by insects.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i One Second before Awakening\ulnone  from a Dream Caused by the \ul Flight of a Bee around a Pomegranate\ulnone\i0\par
\par
2/2 pop culture\par
\par
On an episode of \i Pictionary \i0 in 1997, he was accidentally knocked out cold by an Erik Estrada punch in the face.  His most recent acting credit was as Carlos in Tomcats, though he may be slightly better known for appearing in \i Cannibal Women in the Avocado Jungle of Death \i0 and starring in the ill-advised political satire \i Pizza Man\i0 .  Like countless other comedians, he appeared in the \i Aristocrats\i0 , but is perhaps best known for calling cruise missile attacks acts of "cowardice" on his panel show.  FTP name this Libertarian-leaning comedian and host of politically focused shows such as \i Politically Incorrect\i0  and \i Real Time\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: William "Bill" \ul Maher\ulnone , Jr.\par
\par
The main character got his big break after a Sundance screening of "Queen's Boulevard" convinced a big-name director, though he nearly squandered it over losing a girl to Chris.  The main character's brother got a break, appearing in a movie with Brooke Shields, but lost his agent after the main character's agent quit the agency along with his effeminate Asian assistant, Lloyd.  Mandy Moore has been featured lately playing both the ex-girlfriend and future co-star of James Cameron's Aquaman, starring the main character.  FTP name this HBO series about three fans and the famous actor they leech from, Vincent Chase, starring Jeremy Piven and Adrian Grenier.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Entourage\i0\par
\ulnone\par
Name these flop movies involving musicians trying to act.  FTSNOP.\par
(10)  This 2001 movie's release was famously postponed due to its star's emotional breakdown.  The plot centers around Billie Frank's struggles to make it in a gruesome music industry.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Glitter\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Name either the 1990 direct-to-video disaster or 1991 vehicle starring the \i Celebrity Boxing \i0 combatants born Stanley Burrell and Robert Van Winkle, respectively.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Please Hammer Don't Hurt 'Em\ulnone : The Movie; \i0 or \ul\i Cool As Ice\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This 2004 debacle starred Omarion Grandberry and Marques Houston with Steve Harvey providing a memorable performance as Mr. Rad.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i You Got Served\i0\par
\ulnone\par
Name these Smash Mouth songs from lyrics.  FTPE.\par
(10)  "Well the years start coming / And they don't stop coming / Fed you the rules and I hit the ground running / Didn't make sense not to live for fun / Your brain gets smart but your head gets dumb."\par
\tab Answer: "\ul AllStar\ulnone "\ul\par
\ulnone (10)  "So don't delay, act now supplies are running out / Allow, if your still alive, six to eight years to arrive / and if you follow there may be a tomorrow but if / The offer's shun, you might as well be."\par
\tab Answer: "\ul Walkin' on the Sun\ulnone "\par
\cf1 (10)  "Do you believe everything that you read / Everything that you see on the set / You look around at your sleepy little town / And think that this is as good as it gets."\par
\cf0\tab Answer: "\ul Holiday in My Head\ulnone "\ul\par
\ulnone\par
1/1 social science\par
\par
Once editor of \i Science\i0 , this graduate of Kiel in physics and geography analyzed the report of Jesup North Pacific Expedition to Siberia while curator at NY.  Founder of \i International Journal of American Linguistics\i0 , he rejected universal laws of cultural evolution.  Teaching at Clark and Columbia, he wrote \i Primitive Art\i0  and \i Anthropology and Modern Life\i0 , studied potlatch with the Kwatiutl, and took a trip to Baffin Island.  FTP name this anthropologist who wrote \i The Mind of Primitve Man\i0  and \i Race, Language, and Culture\i0 , a cultural relativist and teacher of Benedict and Mead.\par
\tab Answer: Franz \ul Boas\par
\ulnone\par
Answer the following about John Maynard Keynes.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Keynes accompanied this British prime minister to the Versailles Peace Conference as an economic advisor, but quickly resigned.\par
\tab Answer: David \ul Lloyd George\ulnone\par
(10)  Keynes condemned the excessive reparations placed on Germany and criticized Wilson, Clemenceau, and Lloyd George in this 1919 essay.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Economic Consequences of the Peace\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  Although it lacked clarity and noted that its policies would work best in a totalitarian society, this Keynes work was accepted by governments looking to increase spending and run a budget deficit.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul General Theory\ulnone  of Employment, Interest, and Money\i0\par
\par
1/1 religion mythology philosophy\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Its most famous part ends with a reunion in Indra's heaven.  Its 14th book is \i Anugita\i0  and the stories of Savitri's appeal to Yama and Nala's romance with Damayanti are also given.  Supplemented with the genealogy of the God Hari in \i Harivamsa\i0 , it is divided into 18 parvans and its narrative component contains characters like the dog Dharma and the blind prince Dhitarastra, and is called the \i Bharata\i0 .  Attributed to Vyasa, FTP name this book containing the stories of Draupadi's marriage, feud between the Kauravas and the Pandavas, and Krishna's advice for Arjuna in the \i Bhagavad Gita\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Mahabharata\ulnone\i0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Daughter of Bethuel and granddaughter of Milcah and Nahor, she was chosen by Abraham's servant, who saw her pouring water for his camels.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Sent for because Abraham didn't want his son to marry a Canaanite, name this woman given a gold ring and two gold bracelets, taken to be the wife of Isaac.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Rebekah\ulnone\par
(10)  This Aramean and brother of Rebekah decided to let her go if she chose to.  He harbored his nephew Jacob, who worked 14 years for his daughters Leah and Rachel.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Laban\ulnone\par
(10)  Rebekah had two struggling nations within her when she was pregnant.  This first born of the twins was a hairy ball of red whose heel was held by brother Jacob.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Esau\par
\ulnone\par
1/1 current events\par
\par
He appointed 5 women to the cabinet in his 1st month as prime minister, and his term saw a controversial visit to a war shrine.  The 1st leader from his country to visit North Korea, he promised economic reform upon being reelected to liberal democratic party leadership in 2003.  Once secretary to prime minister Takeo Fukuda, he led a coalition that included Takenori Kanzaki and the New Komeito party.  Leading his party to a comfortable parliament majority in the September elections, FTP name this prime minister of Japan.\par
\tab Answer: Junichiro \ul Koizumi\ulnone\par
\par
Answer the following questions about the recent election in Iran.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This former mayor of Tehran became the president of Iran after receiving 62% of the vote.\par
\tab Answer: Mahmoud \ul Ahmadinejad\ulnone\par
(10)  Ahmadinejad defeated this man, formerly president of Iran from 1989 to 1997.\par
\tab Answer: Akbar Hashemi \ul Rafsanjani\ulnone  or Hashemi \ul Bahramani\par
\ulnone (10)  This man is currently the Supreme Leader of Iran, having served two terms as president from 1981 to 1989.\par
\tab Answer: Ayatollah Seyyed \ul Ali\ulnone  Hosseini \ul Khomeini\ulnone ; prompt on "\ul Khomeini\ulnone "\par
\par
1/1 sports\par
\par
He graduated from Encinal High School in Alameda and was a top prospect for the Chicago Cubs, ending up with his current team in a deal for Matt Clement and Antonio Alfonseca.  Among his more remarkable abilities is his ability at the plate, hitting .241 with 3 extra-base hits in his rookie season.  In his first season, he went 14-6 and his team defeated his former team in a memorable post-season series.  After a poor sophomore campaign, finishing 10-11 with a 4.02 ERA, he has become the first African-American since Dave Stewart to win twenty games.  FTP name this ace southpaw nicknamed "D-Train," currently pitching for the Florida Marlins.\par
\tab Answer: Dontrelle "D-Train" \ul Willis\par
\ulnone\par
Name these famous sports losers for five points, or a more obscure better finisher for ten points.  10-5.\par
(10)  The United States took gold in ice hockey in 1980, and most remember the bronze medalist from that event.  F5P, name the bronze medal winning team, or for ten, the silver medal winning nation.\par
\tab Answer: \ul USSR\ulnone  (5 points) (don\rquote t accept \ul Russia\ulnone ) and \ul Finland\ulnone  (10 points)\par
(10)  The 1999 British Open was handed to a Scotsman after a disastrous eighteenth hole played by a Frenchman whose name has become symbolic in golf for utter collapse.  Name the Frenchman for 5, or the obscure Scottish major winner for ten.\par
\tab Answer: Jean \ul Van de Velde\ulnone  (5 points) and Paul \ul Lawrie\ulnone  (10 points)\par
(10)  He's the 2005 Indy 500 champion, but his probable inability to get ovarian cancer makes him a member of a list of obscure Indy champions.  F5P, name the 23-year-old who led much of the race before finishing fourth, and the eventual winner.\par
\tab Answer: Danica \ul Patrick\ulnone  (5 points) and Dan \ul Wheldon\ulnone  (10 points)\par
\par
1/1 social science or religion mythology philosophy\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Recounted in \i Flores Historiarum\i0 , she is said to have founded a Benedictine monastery and was later sculpted by Anne Whitney and impersonated by dancer Sally Rand.  Ranulf Higden relates in his \i Polychronicon\i0  that only tolls on horses were paid in Coventry as a result of her bargain with her husband Leofric earl of Mercia, and that a tailor Peeping Tom was blinded when he looked out his windows as she rode with only her hair covering her body.  Roger Wendover perpetuated the myth of, FTP this lady who rode nude through a marketplace in exchange for lowering of taxes, namesake of a Belgium chocolate.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Lady \ul Godiva\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\par
Works by Rene Descartes.  FTPE.\par
(10)  It formulated four precepts, the 1st of which is to never accept anything for true which one does not clearly know to be such.  Filled with autobiographical notes, it culminates with the part IV declaration that "I think, therefore I am."\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Discourse\ulnone  on the \ul Method\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Discours de la methode\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  From the premise that humans doubt, it proves the existence of self, of God as objective reality, and of external things.  More famous is the duality of mind and body, in which Descartes suggests that animals are automata.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Meditation\ulnone s on First Philosophy\i0 ; or \ul\i Meditationes de Prima Philosophia\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This compendium of 21 statements outlines methods for the rational discovery of knowledge.  The 3rd statement says that "our inquiries should be aimed at what we can clearly and perspicuously behold and with certainty deduce."\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Rules\ulnone  for the \ul Direction\ulnone  of the \ul Mind\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Regulae ad Directionem Ingenii\ulnone\i0\par
\par
1/1 current events or sports or pop culture\par
\par
This was the first video game to feature a battery pack that stored game data.  It also spawned a little known 13-show cartoon series.  First released in 1986 in Japan, the game\rquote s director, Shigeru Miyamoto, went on to become the chief game designer at his company.  Enemies in the game included the peahat, digdogger, and tektite.  FTP what is this game, set in the land of Hyrule?\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Legend of Zelda\ulnone\i0\par
\par
The NCAA recently decided to ban schools' using nicknames offensive to Native Americans.  Given a school, name its Native American themed team name.  FTSNOP.\par
(5)  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Fightin' Illini\par
\ulnone (5)  Florida State University.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Seminoles\ulnone\par
(10)  Central Michigan University.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Chippewas\par
\ulnone (10)  University of North Dakota.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Fightin' Sioux\par
\ulnone\par
3/3 general knowledge\ul\par
\par
\ulnone Its name comes from the Spanish word for "pelican."  Founded as a military fort in 1854, it was shut down in 1963 because it was too expensive to maintain, but was later opened to the public in 1972.  More than a mile of salt water and strong currents separate it from the mainland.  One common nickname comes from the fact that it was built on an island made of solid rock.  FTP what is this island prison in the San Francisco Bay?\par
\tab Answer: \ul Alcatraz\ulnone  island\par
\ul\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone The judgement hall is fully panelled, as is the house made for Pharaoh's daughter.  The interior is overlaid with red gold, with a veil of golden chains in front of the inner shrine.  The floor is laid with pine and the inner walls are carved with open flowers and gourds.  No hammer or axe were needed in its construction out of blocks of undressed stone.  30,000 men made trips to Lebanon to secure cedar wood for this "habitation for [God] to occupy for ever."  Located at Dome of the Rock and housing the Ark of Covenant, FTP name this building of an order of poor knights of Christ.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul Temple\ulnone  of \ul Solomon\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Pseudo-unipolar cells are the afferent components of this feed-forward inhibition system that involves tibia-attached hamstring inactivation.  Neurons in the dorsal root ganglion form monosynaptic contacts with an inhibitory interneuron directed for the flexor and an excitatory contact with muscle spindles of the extensor quadriceps femoris.  FTP tapping the patellar tendon causes this spinal reflex that raises the leg momemtarily, often conducted in the doctor's office.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul knee jerk\ulnone  reflex\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar After casually mentioning to Beverly Loo of McGraw-Hill, its author got a $500,000 advance for what was deemed Project Octavio, and began digging into a manuscript by former aide Noah Dietrich, putting the material in question-Answer form.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Forged letters were deemed genuine by experts, checks were deposited into a Swiss bank under Helga R. H., and a public denial via a telephone press conference followed after publication of a supposed autobiography of this reclusive man in 1971.\par
\tab Answer: Howard \ul Hughes\ulnone\par
(10)  This small time novelist hatched the Howard Hughes hoax along with researcher Richard Suskind and wife Edith (the H. R. H.).  Ironically, his greatest success up to that point was the book \i Fake!\i0 , a biography of art forger Elmyr de Hory.\par
\tab Answer: Clifford \ul Irving\ulnone\par
(10)  Claiming that Oja Kodar's art forger grandfather had a confrontation with Pablo Picasso after painting 22 nudes of Oja, this filmmaker told the story of Irving and Hughes in his \i F for Fake\i0 , but he is famous for another 1941 unauthorized biography.\par
\tab Answer: Orson \ul Welles\ulnone\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Identify these films by Edwin S. Porter, FTPE.\par
(10)  His first success pioneered the art of editing.  It captures the process of putting out a fire from beginning to end by juxtaposing shots.  Real footage was used for the street scenes and controversy over its copy-righted version's lack of cutting persists.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\i Life of an American Fireman\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This most famous film by Porter narrates a crime from tying up the telegraph operator, to climbing aboard the locamotive, to unhooking the cart, and to eventual escape.  It is known for its naturalistic composition and its making a star out of Broncho Billy.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul Great Train Robbery\ulnone\i0\par
(10)  This late comedy used long and close shots to narrate its nearly film-long dream.  Superimposition allows the camera to show how it feels like to be drunk.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\i Dream of a Rarebit Fiend\par
\ulnone\i0\par
Given the name of a Major League Soccer team, name their home city.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Galaxy.\par
\tab Answer: \ul L\ulnone os \ul A\ulnone ngeles\par
(10)  Fire.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Chicago\par
\ulnone (10)  Wizards.\par
\tab Answer: \ul Kansas City\par
\ulnone\par
}
 