{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs24 Maryland Terrapin 19, 2005.\par
Packet by UCLA and California.\par
Questions by Andrew Lim (Cal), Ray Luo (UCLA), Charles Meigs (UCLA).\par
\par
Science (5/5) \par
No more than 1/1 should be written in each major science (biology, chemistry, physics).  At least two of the other sciences should be represented.  No more than 2/2 should be science biography. \par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar RL: biology\par
The Coffin-Lowry mutation in the MAP kinase pathway has been linked to phosphorylation of these proteins.  Usually basic, they are regulated by the actions of deacetylases and acetyltransferases (HATS) on their lysine residues.  Along with topoisomerase, this octomer maintains DNA in an underwound state, with 200 basepairs wrapped around its H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 types held together by H1.  For ten points, name these proteins in nucleosomes responsible for the beads-on-a-string organization of DNA.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul histone\ulnone s\par
\par
RL: chemistry\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It can begin with lactate in hepatocytes, yielding NADH needed for conversion of 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, and making export of NADH from mitochondria unnecessary, as pyruvate is carboxylated to oxaloacetate, which is then decarboxylated to PEP.  In this process, fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase and glucose 6-phosphate are hydrolyzed, because no ATPs need be formed.  In animals, it occurs in liver and kidneys, while in plants, an additional step turns the product to sucrose.  For ten points, name this pathway, the reverse of glycolysis, converting pyruvate to glucose.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul gluconeogenesis\ulnone\par
\par
RL: physics\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It is inversely related to both the attenuation length and the atomic density of a thick slab.  Its value is highest for the photoelectric effect at low photon energy, and highest for pair production at high photon energy.  When a parallel beam of photons pass through a slab of matter, it is used to quantify the probability of various absorption and scattering processes.  Defined as the number of processes occurring divided by the product of the number of photons in the beam times the number of atoms per unit area, for ten points, name this quantity with unit of meter squared.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul cross section\par
\ulnone\par
RL: earth science\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\qj The ground, stremlined, fluted ridge, and transverse ridge types of this phenomenon have low topographic relief.  When it results in kettles, the landscape is known as hummocky topography.  The end type can become terminal when it remains stationary for a long time, and the recessional type can form around the margin.  The lateral type forms at the sides of valley, while the medial type appears as a strip of dirt in the middle of a glacier.  Made up of till and glacial outwash, for ten points, name this accumulation of sediment deposited by a glacier after it melts, not to be confused with eskers.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul moraine\ulnone\par
\par
RL: computer science\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In organic chemistry, this term refers to the process of separation of enantiomers.  In first-order logic, it is an inference algorithm that converts sentences to conjunctive normal form and attempts to find a contradiction by unifying all possible literals.  John Alan Robinson gave a derivation of this principle in an ACM paper on "machine oriented logic," but it is also complete for propositional logic.  For ten points, give this term that also refers to the number of pixels on a monitor, measured in dots per inch.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul resolution\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar RL: biology\par
It can take place in the absence of ATP for thousands of times, and its speed of conduction is proportional to the diameter of the axon.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Name this all-or-none response that begins in the axon hillock and propagates down the axon unidirectionally without diminution to the synapse.\par
ANSWER: \ul action potential\ulnone\par
[10]  Its 4 charge-sensing positve alpha helices are moved upward by passive spread of positive charges, allowing the device to open in response to depolarization, but its inactivating segment quickly seals the opening.  Blocked by tetrodotoxin, name this entrance-guarded protein allowing influx of a certain ion in action potentials.\par
ANSWER: \ul voltage-gated sodium channel\ulnone ; prompt on "sodium channel," ok if "gated" or its equivalent is then mentioned\par
[10]  Action potentials are unidirectional because voltage-gated sodium channels are plugged during this period, so positive influx has no effect on just-activated areas.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul refractory\ulnone  period\par
\par
RL: chemistry\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Along with cyclotetradecane and larger-sized cyclo alkanes, this compound, in its chair conformation, is the only cyclo alkane with zero ring strain.  5-5-10-10.\par
[5]  Name this compound with formula C6 H12.\par
ANSWER: \ul cyclohexane\ulnone\par
[5]  This other conformation of cyclohexane is actually a transition state between its twist or skew forms, with steric overlap of its flagpole hydrogens.\par
ANSWER: \ul boat\ulnone  form\par
[10]  Although the boat form has no bond-angle strain, it does have transannular strain across the ring, a special case of this straining between eclipsing groups.\par
ANSWER: \ul torsion\ulnone al strain\par
[10]  To avoid eclipsing strain, this relatively unreactive cycloalkane, like cyclohexane, interconverts between two conformations: envelope and half chair.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul cyclopentane\ulnone\par
\par
RL: physics\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Laws from fluid statics.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Force exerted on any particle within a fluid is the same in all directions, i.e. pressure on a fluid is equal in all directions in all parts of the container.\par
ANSWER: \ul Pascal\ulnone 's law\par
[10]  A submerged body is subject to an upward force exactly equal to the weight of the fluid displaced.\par
ANSWER: \ul Archimedes\ulnone 's principle\par
[10]  Archimedes's principle implies that this point is above the center of gravity for a stable floating object.  The upward force can be considered to act at this pt.\par
\pard ANSWER: center of \ul bouyancy\par
\ulnone\par
RL: astronomy\par
Name these theories of the origin of the universe.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Disproved by the distribution of quasars, this theory formulated by Thomas Gold and Hermann Bondi claimed that the universe looks the same from anywhere at any time, and countered Hubble's observations by proposing uniform addition of new matter.\par
ANSWER: \ul steady-state\ulnone  theory\par
[10]  COBE's discovery of temperature variations in the cosmic background radiation and Hubble's observation of red shifting galaxies support this theory formulated by Lemaitre and later George Gamow, which postulated a primordial mass and expansion.\par
ANSWER: \ul big bang\ulnone  theory\par
[10]  Modified by Linde, Steinhardt, and Albrecht, this theory proposed by Alan Guth explained the clutering of the universe by a greater rate of early expansion.\par
ANSWER: \ul inflation\ulnone ary theory\par
\par
RL: math\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following concerning symmetric matrices.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  A matrix A is said to be this if there are a matrix P with P inverse = P transpose, and a diagonal matrix D, such that A = PDP transpose.  It can be shown that A is symmetric if and only if it is this.\par
ANSWER: \ul orthogonally diagonalizable\ulnone\par
[10]  This is a function on Rn whose values at a vector x is expressed as x transpose Ax, where A is a symmetric matrix.\par
ANSWER: \ul quadratic form\ulnone\par
[10]  If A is symmetric, then there is an orthogonal change of variables that transforms the quadratic form x transpose Ax into a quadratic form with no cross-product term.  Name this theorem named after the columns of the orthogonal transformation matrix that form the new coordinate basis.\par
ANSWER: \ul principal axes\ulnone  theorem\par
\pard  \par
History (5/5) \par
Please write at least 1/1 on history before 500 AD, and limit questions to 2 per century.  Also please write at least 1/1 on non-North American or European history. \par
\par
CM: American\par
His father was a member of the House of Burgesses and a major in the Revolutionary War.  In 1828, he was nominated by President Adams for a spot on the Supreme Court but was not confirmed by the Senate.  He was elected twice to the Senate as a Whig but during his second term he changed party affiliation to a Know Nothing.  Along with Andrew Johnson, he authored a resolution in 1861 declaring the goals of the Civil War to be protecting the Union, in order to keep border states such as his own in the Union.  He is more famous for a proposal a year earlier which would have restored the guarantee of slavery given in the Missouri Compromise.  For ten points, name this Kentucky senator who proposed a failed compromise to prevent civil war.\par
ANSWER: John Jordan \ul Crittenden\ulnone\par
\par
RL: American\par
\pard\nowidctlpar In the majority opinion, the precedent set in \i Boyd v. US \i0 is reaffirmed through the \i Olmstead \i0 and \i McNabb \i0 cases by Justice Clark.  Elaborating on an issue left open in \i Weeks v. US\i0 , it reexamined \i Wolf v. Colorado \i0 and concluded that the 4th amendment must also apply to states.  A search of the suspect's Cleveland home resulted in discovery of illegal pornographic materials, but the court ignored 1st amendment implications because no valid warrant was possessed by the police.  For ten points, name this Supreme Court case of 1961 which applied the exclusionary rule to all criminal proceedings.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul\i Mapp\ulnone  v. Ohio\par
\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar RL: European\par
Related to the \i Inquisito Eliensis\i0  and the \i Inquisitio comitatus Cantabrigiensis\i0 , it was assembled by the legati from hundred and shire tenants, and consisted of "Great" and "Little" parts, the latter containing returns from Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk.  Now kept in Chancery Lane, it recorded the holders of both lay and eccelsiastical estates and their wealth for purposes of taxation.  Judged irrevocable after its compilation in 1086, for ten points, name this census survey ordered by William the Conqueror.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul Domesday\ulnone  book; pronounced "Doomsday"\par
\par
CM: European\par
After a gig as a teacher in Kor\'e7e did not pan out, he ran a small tobacco shop from which revolution would be born.  Ironically, his eponymous museum became a local headquarters for the United States Department of Aid and Internal Development after his government crumbled under successor Ramiz Alia.  In 1967, he declared his nation the world's first official atheist state and one of the curious relics of his rule is the hundreds of thousands of bunkers taking up 10% of his country's arable land.  Originally aligned with Stalin, he later changed alignment to Mao and then became isolated after the defeat of the Gang of Four.  For ten points, name this leader who ruled from World War II's end to 1985 as president of Albania.\par
ANSWER: Enver \ul Hoxha\ulnone\par
\par
CM: World\par
The Turin Strike Papyrus details a labor strike of necropolis builders in the village of Set Maat her imenty Waset, now Deir El Medina, the first strike in recorded history, dating from the reign of this pharaoh.  The Great Harris Papyrus details an expedition to Punt in his reign.  Proceeded by his father Setnakht, who reigned for only two years, he is noted for his campaigns against the Libyans, as well as against another force that had ravaged the Semitic states of the north.  These two events are commemorated at his great funerary temple, Medinet Habu, on the west bank of the Nile at Thebes.  For ten points, name this ruler who defeated the Libyans and the Sea Peoples at the expense of the Egyptian treasury, one of the last great native rulers of Egypt and the 2nd pharaoh of the 20th dynasty.\par
ANSWER: \ul Ramesses III\ulnone ; or \ul Rhampsinitus III\ulnone ; or \ul Ramses III\ulnone ; or Wesermaatre-meryamun \ul Ramesse\ulnone -hekaiunu\par
\par
RL: American\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about the presidency of James Knox Polk.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Polk won the 1844 election with the slogan "54-40 or fight" for Oregon, and because this party's candidate James G. Birney took votes from Henry Clay in NY.\par
ANSWER: \ul Liberty\ulnone  Party\par
[10]  Named for the secretary of the treasury, this reduced tariff placed high rates only on luxury items and allowed export of surplus American grain.\par
ANSWER: \ul Walker\ulnone  Tariff\par
[10]  This motion offered by a Pennsylvania congressman stipulated that slavery be banned in all the land acquired through the Mexican-American war.\par
ANSWER: \ul Wilmot Proviso\ulnone\par
\pard\par
CM: American\par
Name these military boats captured in Asia.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Visiting this boat today involves a 15-minute video presentation and a photo op with a machine gun.  Now located in Pyongyang, it was captured in 1968 by North Korea despite U.S. claims that the ship was miles outside of North Korean waters.\par
ANSWER: \i USS\i0  \ul\i Pueblo\ulnone\i0 , Ager II\par
[10]  Forces of the Khmer Rouge took this merchant ship on May 12, 1975.\par
ANSWER: SS \ul\i Mayag\'fcez\ulnone\par
\i0 [10]  Originally commissioned the \i USS Guam\i0 , this ship was the only ship that surrendered to Japanese forces in the course of World War II, doing so after the Japanese conquest of Shanghai.\par
ANSWER: \i USS\i0  \ul\i Wake\ulnone\i0 , PR-3\par
\par
RL: European\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He pretended to be crazy in order to escape death mandated by his uncle, and later pretended to stumble in order to kiss the soil of Rome to fulfill a prophecy.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Name this 1st consul of republican Rome who stirred up indignation against the last king of Rome Tarquinius Superbus, who shares his name with a famous assassin.\par
ANSWER: Lucius Junius \ul Brutus\ulnone\par
[10]  This other consul along with Brutus was the husband of Lucretia, the most virtuous woman in Rome, whose purity led Tarquin's son Sextus to rape her.\par
ANSWER: Lucius Tarquinius \ul Collatinus\ulnone\par
[10]  After the Roman republic was proclaimed, Tarquin the Proud appealed to this king of Clusium in Etruria to restore his kingdom, but his march to Rome was blocked by Horatius Cocles at the bridge of Pons Sublicius.\par
ANSWER: Lars \ul Porsena\ulnone\par
\pard\par
CM: European\par
Name these military commanders from the Russian Civil War.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  This man was the commander of the Red Army and also directed the suppression of the Kronstadt rebellion.  He was exiled in 1929.\par
ANSWER: Leon Davidovich \ul Trotsky\ulnone ; or Lev Davidovich \ul Bronstein\ulnone\par
[10]  Surviving the Civil War, he established the Russian All-Military Union, co-ordinating White exile activities.  His forces surrendered in the Crimea on November 14, 1920.\par
ANSWER: Pyotr Nikolayevich \ul Wrangel\ulnone  \par
[10]  This Bishkek-born Bolshevik general won Central Asia for the Reds, and later took the Crimea from Wrangel.  An opponent of Trotsky and formulator of the unified military doctrine, his hometown was renamed for him in 1926.\par
ANSWER: Mikhail Vasilyevich \ul Frunze\par
\ulnone\par
CM: World\par
Name these Sahel empires.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Achieving its zenith under rulers such as Sonni Ali and Askia Muhammad, it declined sharply after being defeated by Moroccan forces at Tondibi in 1591.\par
ANSWER: \ul Songhai\ulnone  Empire\par
[10]  Existing in some form for over 600 years, this empire ruled the area around Lake Chad and featured great kings such as Mai Idriss Alouma, who captured the Fezzan in modern-day Libya and Hausa lands in Nigeria.\par
ANSWER: \ul Kanem-Bornu\ulnone  Empire\par
[10]  Existing from the eighth to the thirteenth century, it did not rule its namesake modern country, rather having its base in modern-day Mauritania and Mali, with capital at Kumbi Saleh.\par
ANSWER: \ul Ghana\ulnone ; or \ul Wagadou\ulnone  Empire\par
 \par
Literature (5/5) \par
At least 1/1 should be about non-American and non-European literature.  Limit 2/2 for literature biography and 2/2 for each of the major genres of literature (novels, poetry, plays, etc.).\par
\par
RL: novel\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It contains the story of Ferdinand's seduction of Lucinda away from Cardenio, and the so-called Countess Trifaldi's expedition for the heroes on a wooden horse.  Giving an account of Camacho the Rich and Basilio the Poor, it contains the killing of an underling by Roque Guinart and the "rescue" of the galley slave Gines de Pasamonte.  Teresa keeps her husband, the future governor of Barataria in check, and the Knight of the White Moon finally defeats the protagonist.  For ten points, name this novel containing characters like Dulcinea del Toboso and Sancho Panza, by Miguel de Cervantes.\par
\pard ANSWER: \i El ingenioso hidalgo \ul Don Quixote\ulnone  de la Mancha\par
\i0\par
RL: drama\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The dramatist originally wanted boys to play the characters in this play in a Kabuki style.  Seeing the red of the dress as the red of her shame, one character has the perfect way to end suffering, and notes that walls are the ears of God.  The other character parades at night dressed as Marie Antoinette, but is afraid that objects will betray them, and finally sacrifices herself to the ceremony by drinking her own tea.  Based on a murder in Le Mans by the Papin sisters of their employer, for ten points, name this drama about Solange and Claire's imagined murder of Madame by Jean Genet.\par
\pard ANSWER: \i Les \ul bonnes\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Maids\par
\ulnone\i0\par
RL: poetry\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Motionless in time, equal to not true, and leaving "memory by memory the mind" are appropriate for the subject of this poem, which is compared to "the leaning grasses and two lights above the sea."  "Wordless as the flight of birds," its subject should be "silent as the sleeve-worn stone of casement ledges where the moss has grown," and "palpable and mute as a globed fruit."  Noting that "a poem should not mean but be," for ten points, name this Archibald MacLeish poem named for a treatise by Horace.\par
\pard ANSWER: "\ul Ars Poetica\ulnone "; accept "poem" before it is first mentioned\par
\par
RL: author\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His essay include \i The Overcrowded Barracoon\i0  and \i An Area of Darkness\i0 .  Writing about a revolutionary in \i Guerrillas\i0 , and about an English gentleman in \i Mr. Stone and the Knight's Companion\i0 , he penned \i Finding the Centre\i0 , which includes an autobiographical narrative and a story on Cote d'Ivoire.  Once a journalist for the BBC, he wrote about one man's marriage into the Tulsi family in his most famous novel.  For ten points, name this Trinidadian novelist of \i A Bend in the River\i0  and \i A House for Mr. Biswas\i0 .\par
\pard ANSWER: Vidiadhar Surajprasad \ul Naipaul\par
\ulnone\par
RL: various\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Last name is the same.  Antonia wrote a trilogy of novels based on Clara Bachelor and translated the works of Colette.  William Hale wrote \i Miriam's Schooling\i0  and \i Clara Hopgood\i0 , exploring Puritanism under the name of Mark Rutherford.  Gilbert wrote about Selbourne and Minor Martin founded \i Aperture\i0 .  Walter Francis wrote the novels \i Fire in the Flint\i0  and \i Flight\i0 , and led the NAACP, while Theodore Harold wrote \i The View from the Fortieth Floor\i0  and won the Pulitzer prize for 1960's \i The Making of the President\i0 .  \i Happy Valley\i0  and \i The Once and Future King\i0  are by Patrick and Terence Hanbury, who, for ten points, share their last name with the author of \i Stuart Little\i0  and \i Charlotte's Web\i0 , E. B.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul White\ulnone\par
\par
RL: novel\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He has an ivory figure of Christ on his wall, and has a last supper at his boss Willy Shrike's party, but fails to deliver miracles to his girl friend Betty.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Name this titular character eventually shot by Peter Doyle, known by his nom de plume in writing an advise column for the New York Post-Dispatch.\par
ANSWER: \ul\i Miss Lonelyhearts\ulnone\i0\par
[10]  Name the author of \i Miss Lonelyhearts\i0  as well as \i The Day of the Locust\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Nathanael \ul West\ulnone ; or Nathan Wallenstein \ul Weinstein\ulnone\par
[10]  Miss Lonelyhearts spends much of his time talking to Willy and Mary Shrike at this local bar, where he later gets drunk and punches out Goldsmith.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul Delehanty\ulnone 's\par
\par
RL: drama\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It may be "the one thing that is unique in this province," but the son of an ex-serf Lopakhin still thinks that "the only thing unique about it is its size."  For ten points each.\par
[10]  An entry in encyclopedia, name this titular plot of land whose owners, Russian aristocrats, refused to let Lopakhin chop down its trees to lease to summer villas.\par
ANSWER: \ul\i Vishnovy sad\ulnone\i0 ; or \i The \ul Cherry Orchard\ulnone\i0\par
[10]  Name the dramatist of \i The Cherry Orchard\i0 , \i The Three Sisters\i0 , and \i Uncle Vanya\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Anton \ul Chekhov\ulnone\par
[10]  This sister of Gayev keeps getting telegrams from Paris asking her to return to her lover.  She had earlier left the estate after the drowning of her son Grisha.\par
\pard ANSWER: Lyubov Andreyevna \ul Ranevskaya\par
\ulnone\par
RL: poetry\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Titular figures in poems by John Dryden.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  David represents Charles II in this Dryden poem satirizing the Popish plot, with the titular characters being the duke of Monmouth and the earl of Shaftesbury.\par
ANSWER: "\ul Absalom\ulnone  and \ul Achitophel\ulnone : A Poem"\par
[10]  The subject of a Dryden poem in his memory, this "Marcellus of our tongue" is cast in the same poetic mold.  Name this author of \i Satires Upon the Jesuits\i0  who cast the same horoscope and had the same birthday as Dryden, but died young of smallpox.\par
ANSWER: "To the Memory of Mr. \ul Oldham\ulnone "\par
[10]  Ending with "the dead shall live, the living die, and music shall untune the sky," Dryden's song for this saint's day was set to music by Draghi and Purcell.\par
\pard ANSWER: "A Song for Saint \ul Cecilia\ulnone 's Day"\par
\par
RL: author\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name the writer.  30-20-10.\par
[30]  He calls autumn "a slender maid who soon will be a woman grown," in a poem translated by Arthur Ryder.  He also wrote \i Cycle of the Seasons\i0  and \i Cloud Messenger\i0 .\par
[20]  He wrote an epic tracing the lineage of Rama to the god Raghu, and told the story of the goddess Urvasi and the mortal king Puruvaras in \i Vikramorvashiya\i0 , though his greatest work is about a child brought up next to the Malini river by Kanva.\par
[10]  In addition to \i Malavikagnimitra\i0 , this Sanskrit dramatist and poet wrote about Durvasa's curse on King Dushyanta's memory in \i The Recognition of Shakuntala\i0 .\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul Kalidasa\ulnone\par
\par
RL: various\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about literary Mildreds.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Mildred Rogers is the promiscuous waitress who dumps the club-footed Philip Carey in this Somerset Maugham novel about love and desire.\par
ANSWER: \ul\i Of Human Bondage\ulnone\i0\par
[10]  Vain and promiscuous Mildred Douglas calls the stoker Yank Smith the titular animal in this Eugene O'Neill play where murder occurs in the zoo.\par
ANSWER: \i The \ul Hairy Ape\ulnone\i0\par
[10]  This titular Mildred in a James M. Cain novel tries to protect her spoiled daughter Veda from charges of murdering Monte Branagan.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul\i Mildred Pierce\ulnone\i0\par
\par
Fine Arts (2/2) \par
No more than 1/1 should be about any major field of Fine Arts.\par
\par
RL: art\par
\pard\nowidctlpar A copy of this work by the artist is held at Boston.  A bald-headed man is trying to restrain one of the two young men in white, who are reaching out with their arms, while three scared-looking people are assigned to the rear.  Exhibited at the Royal Academy, it depicts rope hanging on the right arm of one of the titular figures, the harbors of Havanna in the background, a black man with a yellow scarf on, and a hair-raised boatman stabbing a harpoon into the titular creature.  For ten points, name this John Singleton Copley painting of a naked man about to encounter a large fish.\par
\pard ANSWER: \i Brook \ul Watson and the Shark\ulnone\i0\par
\par
RL: opera\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Salvatore Cammarano's libretto gives the name Raimondo to the character of Bide-the-Bent.  It ends with Edgardo's suicide while thinking of his dead lover, singing "tu che a Dio spiegasti l'ali."  Enrico wanted his sister to marry Arturo, but she loves Edgardo, and is tricked into marriage, later murdering Arturo and emerging blood-stained in her Mad Scene.  Based on the story of Arthur Bucklaw's marriage to Lucy Ashton, for ten points, name Donizetti opera based on Walter Scott's \i The Bride of Lammermoor\i0 .\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul\i Lucia di Lammermoor\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Lucy of Lammermoor\par
\ulnone\i0\par
RL: film\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The last moments in this film feature a red, white, and blue tinted view of marching troops and flowing water on the Italian campaign, while an eagle looks on.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Name this French film featuring superimposed images like the titular hero's face during a snowball fight, Madame Beauharnais with the picture of a globe, and waves over the National Convention, featuring Albert Dieudonne in the titular role.\par
ANSWER: \ul\i Napoleon\ulnone\i0\par
[10]  Name the director of \i Napoleon\i0 , who also experimented with close-ups and lense distortion in works like \i Tenth Symphony\i0 , \i End of the World\i0 , \i J'accuse\i0 , and \i La roue\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Abel \ul Gance\ulnone\par
[10]  The end of \i Napoleon\i0  features a three-proned split screen of troops, moutains, the face of Josephine, Napoleon, and waves in a screening process known as this.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul polyvision\ulnone\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar RL: music\par
It usually begins with a piano solo, followed by a brass intro, then elboration by vocals as Betty Roche or Ray Nance scats, singing about "quickest way to Harlem," while Cootie Williams and Paul Gonsalves follow with trumpet and sax solos.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Name this composition by Billy Strayhorn, a signature piece for a jazz band.\par
ANSWER: "\ul Take the 'A' Train\ulnone "\par
[10]  Name the most frequent performer of "Take the 'A' Train," whose other works include "Satin Doll," "Black and Tan Fantasy," and "Mood Indigo" for the Cotton Club.\par
ANSWER: Edward Kennedy "Duke" \ul Ellington\ulnone\par
[10]  This other exotic "jungle" piece by Ellington is built on 24 bar and 12 bar themes, as a plunger-muted cornet responds to the orchestra, "stealing" the show.\par
\pard ANSWER: "The \ul Mooche\ulnone "\par
 \par
Religion, Philosophy and Mythology (2/2) \par
Write a maximum of 1/1 and minimum of one question about each of the three disciplines (and try to vary within each category). \par
\par
RL: religion\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Two of his descendants were sons of Adah, and lived in tents and played the harp, repectively.  Another descendant was the tool-making son of Zillah and Lamech, with Tubal added before the name given after this Biblical figure.  Grandfather of Irad, he built the city of Enoch and named his son after it.  A farmer exiled to the land of Nod, he is protected from death by a promised 7-fold punishment.  For ten points, name this man whose gifts were not accepted by God, unlike the flocks of his brother Abel.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul Cain\ulnone\par
\par
RL: philosophy\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He went to Sicily with ambassador Charles Mordaunt, earl of Peterborough, and wrote \i Advice to the Tories Who Have Taken the Oaths\i0  during the Jacobite rebellion.  His proposal for building a college in Bermuda to educate Indians was abandoned after staying at Newport Rhode Island to write \i Alciphron; or The Minute Philosopher\i0 , which discussed the use of words in religious argument.  He noted that subjectively, to be is to perceive, but objectively, to be is to \i be\i0  perceived.  For ten points, name this author of \i Passive Obedience\i0  and \i Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision\i0 , an Irish bishop.\par
\pard ANSWER: George \ul Berkeley\ulnone\par
\par
RL: religion\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about Jainism.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Called founders of paths, these prophets of Jainism include the 24th, its founder Vardhamana, also called Mahavira.  They have acquired kevala, or omniscience.\par
ANSWER: \ul tirthankara\ulnone s\par
[10]  Allowed to wear a robe, carry a bowl, and use a broom, the members of this sect of Jainism wear the mukhavastrika to avoid insects and take the 5 mahavratas vows.\par
ANSWER: \ul Svetambara\ulnone\par
[10]  The naked Digambara also take the great vows, which include ahimsa, asteya, brahmacarya, aparigraha, and this, the vow of truthfulness.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul satya\ulnone\par
\par
RL: mythology\par
\pard\nowidctlpar A contemporary of Agga of Kish, he cut down a cedar tree with the help of Enkidu, but was attacked by Humbaba, from whom he was saved by the plea of his mom Ninsun.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Name this mortal king of Uruk who refused to be seduced by Ishtar, who asked Anu to send a bull of heaven against him, which he killed with the help of Enkidu.\par
ANSWER: \ul Gilgamesh\ulnone\par
[10]  When Enkidu fell ill and died, Gilgamesh crossed the ocean of death, ferried by Urshanabi, and asked this old man how he survived the flood when warned by Ea, and whether immortality was possible, to which he suggested seeking an herb in the sea.\par
ANSWER: \ul Utnapishtim\ulnone\par
[10]  Earlier, Gilgamesh sent this prostitute to seduce Enkidu when he lived in the wilds after being created out of clay by Aruru, forcing him into civilization.  \par
\pard ANSWER: \ul Shamhat\par
\ulnone\par
Social Science (2/2) \par
Write a maximum of 1/1 about each major discipline. \par
\par
RL: psychology\par
\pard\nowidctlpar This work points out the stages in the substitution of individual power for communal power as identity formation, sublimation, and renunciation of aggression.  Mechanisms for coping with suffering include deflection, substitution, and intoxication, which the author elaborates on using a thesis from his own earlier work \i The Future of an Illusion\i0 .  Pitting Eros against Death, it begins by elaborating ego's oneness with the world that produces an "oceanic" feeling.  For ten points, name this book about the suffering caused by conflict between individual libido and societal superego, by Sigmund Freud.\par
\pard ANSWER: \i Das \ul Unbehagen in der Kultur\ulnone\i0 ; or \ul\i Civilization and Its Discontents\ulnone\i0\par
\par
RL: sociology \par
He married second cousin Marianne Schnitger, finally moving out of his parent's home by teaching jurisprudence at Berlin.  He surveyed German agrarian problems for the Union for Social Policy and concluded that the Junker aristocracy was obsolete.  He attracted Naumann and Delbruck to advocacy of liberal imperialism as advanced in his Freiburg address.  For ten points, name this sociologist who examined Western rationalization in \i Economy and Society\i0 , and wrote \i The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\i0 .\par
ANSWER: Max \ul Weber\ulnone\par
\par
RL: psychology\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about Piaget's theory of cognitive development.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  This is the process by which children use existing schemes to comprehend new information about the environment, e.g. using the "grasp" scheme on a novel object.\par
ANSWER: \ul assimilation\ulnone\par
[10]  When the object in the environment doesn't fit the existing scheme, children undergo this process to modify the scheme, e.g. changing the "grasp" scheme to the "grasp and listen" scheme when the object makes a noise.\par
ANSWER: \ul accommodation\ulnone\par
[10]  Piaget uses this term to denote children's attempt to balance perceptions with understanding of the world, using assimilation and accomodation to build schemes.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul equilibration\par
\ulnone\par
RL: linguistics\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these chain shifts in language.  5-5-10-10.\par
[5]  An English chain shift whereby high long vowels are diphthongized and other long vowels are raised.\par
ANSWER: \ul Great\ulnone  vowel shift\par
[5]  A shift in Germanic Indo-European in which voiceless stops became fricatives, voiced stops became voiceless, and voiced aspirated stops lost aspiration.\par
ANSWER: \ul Grimm\ulnone 's law\par
[10]  This law explains exceptions to Grimm's law by postulating that medial unaspirated voiceless stops followed by stressed syllables became voiced fricatives.\par
ANSWER: \ul Verner\ulnone 's law\par
[10]  This law explains the loss of aspiration on the first of two aspirated stops in Greek and Sanskrit roots.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul Grassmann\ulnone 's law\par
\par
Geography (1/1) \par
Do not write both questions about similar landforms like bodies of water or mountain ranges. Questions about countries should not include historical information unless it relates directly to its geography. \par
\par
CM: country\par
Its highest mountain peak is at Triglav and this nation has a brief strip of coastline home to the ports of Izola and Piran.  The city of Kranj and this nation's present day capital were capitals of the historic region of Carniola, as Krain and Laibach, respectively.  Among the notable geological features of this country is the Kras Plateau, from which the term "karst" derives.  Home to the source of the Sava River, this is, for ten points, what nation on the Adriatic bordering Italy, Croatia, Austria, and Hungary, with capital at Ljubljana.\par
ANSWER: \ul Slovenia\ulnone\par
\par
CM: landform\par
Name these North American isthmuses.  5-10-15.\par
[5]  This isthmus is bordered on the north by the Caribbean Sea and is cut by a notable canal.\par
ANSWER: Isthmus of \ul Panam\'e1\ulnone\par
[10]  It includes southeastern parts of Oaxaca (WAH-HAW-KUH) and Veracruz, and was once considered a region suitable for an interoceanic canal.  It is located between the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico.\par
ANSWER: Isthmus of \ul Tehuantepec\par
\ulnone [15]  Notable geographical features in this isthmus include the Tantramar marshes, and it also is home to the border between the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.\par
ANSWER: Isthmus of \ul Chignecto\ulnone\par
\par
Trash, General Knowledge and Current Events (2/2) \par
No more than 1/1 Current Events should be written.\par
\par
AL: trash\par
He is perhaps the most famous graduate of Western Kentucky University, where he rushed for 1249 yards and 10 touchdowns as a senior.  Though drafted, he failed to stick with a team, and played for the Edmonton Eskimos and the Las Vegas Outlaws before finding a home with his current team.  For ten points, name this reserve running back and special teamer for the Carolina Panthers, who recently changed his moniker from the one he made famous with the XFL Outlaws to "He Love Me."\par
ANSWER: \ul He Hate Me\ulnone ; or Rod \ul Smart\ulnone\par
\par
AL: current events\par
David Halberstam writes in \i War in a Time of Peace\i0  of his support for lift and strike: "He was a Scoop Jackson Democrat who, disenchanted with his party's foreign policy, had gradually turned into a Reagan Republican, a social liberal and ... ideological purist in foreign policy."  Although he would not win the argument on lift and strike, he would return to public service after a 7 year stint as Dean of the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins.  For ten points, name this former Deputy Secretary of Defense under Rumsfeld, who won the argument on the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and who took the helm at the World Bank in 2005.\par
ANSWER: Paul \ul Wolfowitz\ulnone\par
\par
AL: trash\par
Name these curious characters of the 2005 NFL draft.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Despite questions about his character, the Tennessee Titans made this West Virginia defensive back the 6th pick of the 2005 draft.  He responded with two arrests before signing his rookie contract.\par
ANSWER: \ul A\ulnone dam "Pac-Man" \ul Jones\ulnone\par
[10]  The 1st of Tampa Bay's two 3rd round picks, this tight end from Stanford has proven more productive than a 49ers quarter back, the no. 1 overall pick with whom he shares his name.\par
ANSWER: \ul Alex Smith\ulnone\par
[10]  The 255th pick in the draft by the New England Patriots, this tight end out of William Penn became 2005's and the 30th annual, Mr. Irrelevant.\par
ANSWER: Andy \ul Strokes\ulnone\par
\par
AL: current events\par
Answer these questions about Iran's nuclear program.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  Home to Iran's uranium conversion activities, the Iranian government imposed a suspension of operations here as part of negotiations with the EU, but resumed operations (to much European consternation) in August 2005.\par
ANSWER: \ul Isfahan\ulnone\par
[10]  Of much greater concern to the west is the uranium enrichment facility here, where Iran wants to operate hundreds of centrifuges.  The West prefers none.\par
ANSWER: \ul Natanz\ulnone\par
[10]  The election of this hard-line president in July 2005 likely complicated the European nuclear negotiations with Iran.  Accusations that he was among those revolutionaries who took American diplomats hostage in 1979 have not warmed normally testy relations with the US.\par
ANSWER: Mahmoud \ul Ahmadinejad\ulnone\par
\par
Your Choice (1/1) \par
Anything goes, within reason.  Interdisciplinary questions are encouraged.\par
\par
RL: development\par
\pard\nowidctlpar It affects transcription factors of \i Sox\i0  genes and secretes the proteins follistatin, noggin, and chordin, which bind to RI and RII subunits of BMP receptors, inhibiting binding of the TGF-beta type bone morphogenetic protein, allowing posterior neural plate development in the presence of retinoic acid.  1st uncovered in newts, it can generate its own axial mesoderm and notochord after being transplanted to a host, allowing formation of two nervous systems.  Localized to the gray crescent on the dorsal lip of the blastopore in the gastrula, for ten points, name this control center that directs embryonic differentiation, sometimes named for a German 1935 Nobel winner.\par
ANSWER: \ul Spemann\ulnone -Mangold organizer region; or the \ul Organizer\ulnone\par
\pard\par
RL: intelligence\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about study of intelligence from different disciplines.  For ten points each.\par
[10]  This Stanford psychologist modified the Simon-Binet IQ test to study mentally gifted children, whom he found to be healthier and more stable.\par
ANSWER: Lewis \ul Terman\ulnone\par
[10]  Along with Jerre Levy, this Nobel prize winning biologist found that the right hemisphere has greater visual intelligence while the left hemisphere has greater verbal intelligence.\par
ANSWER: Roger \ul Sperry\ulnone\par
[10]  Computer scientists Allen Newell and Herbert Simon worked with Clifford Shaw to construct this computational model of intelligent reasoning that provides solutions to logical proofs by means-ends analysis.\par
\pard ANSWER: \ul General Problem Solver\par
\ulnone\par
}
 