{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1507;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\b\f0\fs24 WIT 14, 2006.\par
India theme packet by UCLA.\par
Questions by Ray Luo.\par
\b0\par
21/21 total.\par
\par
4/4 literature.\par
\par
He "rides a flea-bitten mare, and wears a sun-helmet."  He applies the "standards of the West," using "violent language that is natural to him" to solve the Oriental problem, behaving like a god.  He left for India with Tony and Archie, but just as Neville's son is born, he fell, died, and was buried there, though it could have been Egypt or Greece, since "all deaths are one death."  He has a "ridiculous name," and wasn't a great reader, though his friends like Susan and Rhoda find themselves but "hollow phantoms moving mistily without a background" when he died.  FTP name this hero from Virginia Woolf's \i The Waves\i0  who shares his name with an Arthurian knight.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Percival\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Title's the same.  The poem by this name notes that "nature and man shall be disjoin'd and diffused no more" and "the true son of God shall absolutely fuse them."  The film by this name has Alec Guinness playing a professor, while the novel by this name, the inspiration for the film, features characters like the collector Turton and the surgeon Major Callendar.  The poem begins with the narrator "singing the great achievements of the present, singing the strong light works of engineers," and calls for the poet's brave soul to "farther farther sail."  FTP name this title shared by a poem from \i Leaves of Grass\i0  and a novel about Dr. Aziz by E. M. Forster.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \i A \ul\b Passage to India\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\ulnone\i0\par
The main character in this work is called "a reversion to type," and her personality is attributed to "that crazy Indian blood" in her, because "Indian women all just sat around and never said anything."  She first posed a question to Charley Paulson in an effort to become a "society vampire," and it soon attracted the attention of G. Reece Stoddard, the most desirable bachelor at the dance.  When she loses Warren McIntyre after taking the titular action, she takes revenge on her cousin Marjorie Harvey and leaves town.  FTP name this F. Scott Fitzgerald story about a girl had her locks cut.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul\b Bernice Bobs Her Hair\ulnone\b0 "\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The "deserts of vast eternity" stare at the author of this poem, who sits "by the tide of Humber" while the subject finds rubies "by the Indian Ganges' side."  The poet would not love at lower rate than dedicating 30,000 years to the rest of the lover's portions until at last her heart is shown.  Before "your quaint honour turn to dust and into ashses all my lust," the poet urges us to "tear our pleasures with rough strife, thorough the iron gates of life."  FTP name this poem beginning with "had we but world enough, and time," addressed to a shy lady by Andrew Marvell.\par
\pard\tab Answer: "\ul\b To His Coy Mistress\ulnone\b0 "\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Works of literature.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Returning from India after a five year absence, Peter Walsh is still in love with a married Indian woman named Daisy.  Both he and Sally Seton, now Lady Rosseter, visit the titular character's party in this novel by Virginia Woolf.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Mrs. Dalloway\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  A journalist in India is visited by Peachy Carnehan, who relates him and Daniel Dravot setting themselves up as gods in Kafiristan in this Rudyard Kipling story.\par
\tab Answer: "The \ul\b Man Who Would Be King\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  Once married to a West Indian negress, Captain Shotover now sits at home trying to attain the "7th degree of concentration," while his daughters Hesione Hushabye and Ariadne Utterwood make a fool of their husbands and lovers in this Bernard Shaw play.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Heartbreak House\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar She became so engrossed in her character in her novel \i The Rapture of Lol V. Stein\i0 , that she regretted she couldn't be Lol V. Stein herself.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this French author of the New Novel movement who wrote \i Moderato cantabile\i0  and described her own upbringing in Saigon in \i The Lover\i0 , which won the Prix Goncourt.\par
\tab Answer: Marguerite \ul\b Duras\ulnone\b0 ; or Marguerite \ul\b Donnadieu\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Duras is best known for writing the screenplay for this New Wave feature directed by Alain Resnais about a French woman making a documentary about the atomic bomb falling in love with a Japanese architect, both metaphors for their heritages.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Hiroshima mon amour\ulnone\b0\i0 ; or \ul\b\i Hiroshima My Love\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  This Duras play about a beggar woman from Lahore and a consul's wife Anne-Marie Stretter, who has an impossible love, was made into a film starring Delphine Seyrig.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i India Song\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He wrote a play about \i Commodus\i0 , as well as a poem about the Turkish Othman, \i The Wooing of Malkatoon\i0 , but is best known for an 1880 "tale of the Christ."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Notable for averting the Confederates from Washington DC at the battle of Monocacy, name this general who turned to writing \i The Fair God\i0  and \i Boyhood of Christ\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Lew \ul\b Wallace\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Wallace is best known for this novel in which the titular hero rejoins his mom and sister, who have become lepers, after dispatching Messala in a chariot race.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Ben-Hur\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  In this Wallace work subtitled "Why Constantinople Fell," the titular wandering Jew, who pretends to be a royal personage from another land, is killed after offering his service to Mohammed II, but is reborn as a youth to have further adventures.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b Prince of India\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Works of 20th century literature.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Ammu has an affair with the carpenter Velutha, as the children Rahel and Estha are followed back in time to when their English cousin Sophie Mol drowned.  There's also a scene during a showing of \i The Sound of Music\i0  in this Arundhati Roy novel.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b God of Small Things\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  Coming after "When Mr. Pirzad Came to Dine" in its namesake collection, this short story by Jhumpa Lahiri concerns Mr. Kapasi's role as a tour guide at Konarak and confidant to Mrs. Das's confession that she has had a baby out of wedlock.\par
\tab Answer: "\ul\b Interpreter of Maladies\ulnone\b0 "\par
(10)  Based on Thomas Mann's \i Transposed Heads\i0 , this 1971 Girish Karnad play begins with Devadatta and his faithful friend Kapila beheading themselves when the former gets suspicious of his wife Padmini.  Kali then decides to put the heads back on.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Hayavadana\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\pard\par
4/4 history.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The Valvettithurai incident is known as India's version of this event.  Olsen took himself away from the action by setting up a perimeter defence, and Colburn turned his gun towards his superiors, but it was the landing of a helicopter driven by Hugh Thompson that ended it.  Reports by Oran Henderson claimed that the affair was an accident, and it was not until Ron Ridenhour's letter to congress and Seymour Hersh's investigations that it began to be uncovered.  Ernest Medina gave the order, and William Calley was convicted.  FTP name this 1968 massacre of Vietnamese villagers.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b My Lai\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Its idea was originally proposed by Jawaharlal Nehru, though discussions on it did not begin until after the Tlatelolco and NPT treaties had been signed, establishing the Zangger Committee, and limiting discussions to a party of two.  Two years after it was signed, a nuclear test in the Rajasthan desert of India led to an impasse.  It froze inter-continental and submarine-launched ballistic missile levels, though replacement of old weapons were allowed.  Signed in Moscow by Kissinger and Brezhnev, it included an Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty and an interim agreement before the next set of talks.  FTP name this first of a series of treaties on US-Soviet arms control.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b S\ulnone\b0 trategic \ul\b A\ulnone\b0 rms \ul\b L\ulnone\b0 imitation \ul\b T\ulnone\b0 reaty \ul\b I\ulnone\b0  (SALT I); accept \ul\b A\ulnone\b0 nti-\ul\b B\ulnone\b0 allistic \ul\b M\ulnone\b0 issile treaty before it is mentioned\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The treaty by this name was a response to French threat as a result of Napoleon's treaty of Tilsit with Russia, and fixed the Sutlej river as the border with Ranjit after its signing by Charles Metcalfe.  Jagit Aurora opposed a plan by Dayal, Brar, and Sundarji for taking Bhindrenwale from it in Operation Blue Star.  The Hunter commission investigated an incident that took place after riots over the Rowlatt act in its Jallianwalla Bagh garden.  Founded by Ram Das, it was the site of Reginald Dyer's massacre of innocents, and a 1984 operation authorized by Indira Gandhi.  FTP name this city in Punjab, site of a pool of nectar and a golden temple of the Sikhs.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Amritsar\ulnone\b0 ; prompt on "golden temple" before it is mentioned\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He built the yakshis of the Great Stupa of Sanchi to placate worshippers of trees, and obtained the support of Shivrath for early campaigns in Takshasila.  He killed his brothers Sugatra and Susima to obtain the throne, and espoused the chakraqvartin, or righteous ruler.  He sent his children Mahendra and Sanghamitra as missionaries to Sri Lanka, and issued the Minor Edicts on dharma and the Rock and Pillar Edicts on social welfare.  Succeeding Bindusara, he conquered Kalinga from Magadha, but soon regretted war, turning to ahimsa.  FTP name this Mauryan emperor who spread Buddhism.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Asoka\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Ashoka\ulnone\b0\par
\par
In the chapter titled "Indian Summer," it introduces old age in the context of the Spanish-American war, and notes that the American mind "likes to walk straight up to its object, and assert or deny something that it takes for a fact."  FTPE.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar (10)  Name this study containing chapters on "The Height of Knowledge" and "The Abyss of Ignorance," an autobiography written in the 3rd person by an American historian.\par
\tab Answer: \i The \ul\b Education of Henry Adams\ulnone\b0\i0\par
\pard (10)  In chapter 12 of \i The Education\i0 , "Eccentricity," Adams described this English liberal as "a consistent conservative of the old Commonwealth type."  Along with Richard Cobden, he stood against the Corn laws, and opposed John Russell's policies.\par
\pard\nowidctlpar\tab Answer: John \ul\b Bright\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Chapter 7 of \i The Education\i0  noted that this man's "chief offence was his insistence on Southern ignorance."  He later received a beating from Preston Brooks.\par
\tab Answer: Charles \ul\b Sumner\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Fresh off the storming of Aornos, the victors found the Indian camp between the Chenab and Jhelum rivers, and rammed into the left wing, forcing the elephants to plunge back.  Afterwards, the city of Bucephala was founded to honor a horse.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this battle won by Alexander the Great for Taxiles over Porus in India.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Hydaspes\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Upon Alexander's return, this best friend of his died in Ecbatana.  Alexander then took on a harsh expedition against the Cossaeans in Luristan and got sick.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Hephaestion\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  After his death, Alexander's sons were killed, and this general, who commanded the Macedonian infantry at Hydaspes, united with Ptolemy to defeat Antigonus at Ipsus and took Syria.  His namesake dynasty was checked to the east by Chandragupta Maurya.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Seleucus\ulnone\b0  I Nicator\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Brijen Gupta suggested that only 64 were ever imprisoned, while J. H. Little claimed that the nawab of Bengal Siraj-ud-Dawlah's part was only one of negligence.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this so-called event taking place after the capture of Fort William in which members of the East India Company garrison were imprisoned in a small room.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Black Hole\ulnone\b0  of \ul\b Calcutta\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This British council member reported the incident in support of imperialism, claiming falsely that 146 people were shut up, of which only 23 survived.\par
\tab Answer: John Zephaniah \ul\b Holwell\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Escaping from Madras, this British commander defeated the French at Arcot during the seige of Trichinopoly, but is more famous for capturing Chandernagore and overcoming the nawab at Plassey by bribing the enemy's men to defect.\par
\tab Answer: Robert \ul\b Clive\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One of its namesake descendants remarks on the Cal Berkeley quiz bowl web page that "In India, they pay you to play quiz bowl!"  FTPE.\par
(10)  Governing from Pataliputra after uniting the Licchavis, this Indian dynasty saw the flourishing of culture and religion in Bihar until being overrun by the Huns.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Gupta\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This son of Chandragupta I, the founder of the Gupta dynasty, expanded his kingdom as far as Kanchipuram in Tamil, Nepal to the north, and vassal states at the borders of the empire.  He also had a bunch of new gold coins printed.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Samudra\ulnone\b0 gupta\par
(10)  The Gupta dynasty saw the rise of this dramatist who composed \i Meghaduta\i0 , or \i The Cloud Messenger\i0 , as well as the epic \i Shakuntala\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Kalidasa\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
4/4 science.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Found in x-ray study of quills by William Astbury, this structure occupies the lower left quadrant in a graph of psi vs. phi angles in the famous Ramachandran diagram.  Serine and threonine destablize it if close together, while glycine is found rarely due to its excess flexibility.  Negatively charged groups stabilize the amino terminus while positively charged groups stabilize the carboxyl end, because 4 residues at each end do not hydrogen bond, setting up a dipole.  Proline makes a kink in this right-handed motif first analyzed by Linus Pauling.  FTP name this protein secondary structure where 3.6 amino acid residues make up a single turn.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b alpha helix\ulnone\b0 ; prompt on "keratin" before "motif"\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Named for a Wisconsin enzymologist, it begins with attachment to silica support.  The dimethoxytrityl, or DMT, protecting group is removed from the 5' hydroxyl, so that it is ready to receive the next diisopropylamino-activated nucleotide.  Oxidation with iodine produces a cyanoethyl phosphotriester linkage, which is subsequently cleaned up after repeating nucleotide attachment to the 5' end.  The analog of Merrifield solid state peptide synthesis for nucleotides, FTP name this technique of nucleic acid synthesis named for a 1968 Nobel prize winner, an Indian-American biochemist.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Khorana\ulnone  \b0 nucleic acid synthesis\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Shanta, Chaturvedi, and Srinivasan of Hyderabad university gave an algebraic approach to calculating the eigenstates of linear combinations for their pair annihilation.  The Schwinger type of them were used to model anisotropic thin films in mean field theory, and the Goldstone type appear when symmetry is spontaneously broken.  Phonons belong to this class of particles, as do deuterium nuclei.  Their gauge fields obey the Heisenberg commutator relations, and examples include photons, gluons, gravitons, W, Z, and Higgs particles.  FTP name these particles that do not obey the Pauli exclusion principle, have integer spin, and were proposed by an Indian physicist.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b boson\ulnone\b0 s\par
\par
It is seen by setting central density equal to infinity in the solution to a second order differential equation with polytrope N defined by relating pressure inverse exponentially with density, a function named for Lane and Emden.  Resulting from the application of relativity to the work of Ralph Fowler, it is inversely proportional to 3/2 power of the gravitation constant.  Supported by electron degeneracy pressure, this value was ignored by Arthur Eddington.  Lying below the TOV limit for neutron stars, FTP name this maximum mass of white dwarves named for an Indian physicist.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Chandrasekhar\ulnone  \b0 limit\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar K. K. Bisaria found that incidence of rarely seen bilateral grooves on it is highest in Indian brains.  Receiving Meyer's loop from the lateral geniculate, carrying info from outer spatial fields, it projects to the superior colliculi to handle reflexes.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this lobe of the brain that is often striated, and handles visual info.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b occipital\ulnone\b0  lobe\par
(10)  This nucleus of the oculomotor system receives fibers from the pretectal system and projects to the ciliary ganglion to mediate the pupillary light reflex.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Edinger-Westphal\ulnone\b0  nucleus\par
(10)  These are constructs proposed by Montcastle and verified by Hubel and Weisel that arrange different visual input orientations from each eye in an organized form.\par
\pard\tab Answer: ocular \ul\b dominance column\ulnone\b0 s\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Used to reduce aldehydes and ketones to alcohols in the Corey reactions, these trigonal planar molecules were named by Alfred Stock by analogy to alkanes.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name these compounds of boron and hydrogen held together by banana bonds.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b borane\ulnone\b0 s\par
(10)  E. D. Jemmis of the Indian Institute of Science modified these rules named for an English chemist to come up with the namesake m-n-o rules.  These rules state that a polyhedral molecule with a geometry of n triangles will have n+1 bonding pairs.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Wade\ulnone\b0 's rules\par
(10)  Wade's rules account for molecules like boranes with multicentered bonding, thus extending this 4n+2 rule for aromatic compounds broadened to 2(n+1)^2 in 3D.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Huckel\ulnone\b0 's rule\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Two in parallel form a SQUID used to detect small magnetic fields.  Its oscillation frequency is related to voltage via electron charge over Planck's constant.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this device consisting of two superconductors separated by an insulating layer, in which Cooper pairs of electrons can tunnel through in its namesake effect.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Josephson\ulnone  \b0 junction\par
(10)  Nakamura, Pashkin, and Tsai used a Josephson junction between superconductors in a Cooper pair box to simulate this theoretical device, with one pair as one qubit.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b quantum computer\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  When Brian Josephson wasn't working on superconductivity, he was editing the journal \i Consciousness and the Physical World\i0  with this Indian-American neurologist at UCSD, who wrote \i Phantoms in the Brain\i0  and \i A Brief Tour of Human Consciousness\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Vilayanur S. \ul\b Ramachandran\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar His writing style was sparing, as influenced by Carr's \i Synopsis of Elementary Results in Pure Mathematics\i0 , the only book he had access to earlier on at Madras.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this discoverer of results in highly composite numbers, infinite series expansions, and partition functions, many of which are unproven, an Indian math wiz.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Srinivasa Aiyangar \ul\b Ramanujan\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar (10)  When Littlewood went off to war, Ramanujan began working with this Cambridge mathematician, who is supposed to have played cricket with Reginald Punnett.\par
\tab Answer: Godfrey Harold \ul\b Hardy\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Ramanujan conjectured that the Fourier coefficients of the modular discriminant in this function are bounded by 2p to the 11 over 2.  It is related to the divisor function by the Cauchy product formula.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b tau\ulnone  \b0 function\par
\pard\par
3/3 religion myth philosophy.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar The Dhundia and Lunka sects of this religion rejected iconiclasm of the 12th century, while the Sthanakavasi sect rejected temple worship.  Its followers are divided into the monastic yatis and the lay sravaka, and those who practice it perform the 16 samskaras.  The vows of asteya, brahmacarya, and aparigraha are 3 of the 5 observed by its followers, who see the world as comprising the jiva and the ajiva.  Those who attain enlightenment are called conquerors, and such saints from the past are termed tirthankaras, the 24th of whom founded it.  Divided into Svetambara and Digambara, FTP name this religion founded by Mahavira that preaches ahimsa, or nonviolence.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Jain\ulnone\b0 ism\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Abhishek Kumar of Georgia Tech uses this name for a new "robust, low-diameter, low-latency peer-to-peer network."  Delhi's own Nirmal Verma won an award by this name in 2006 for third world reporting.  Also a business intelligence software company, it names a vehicle ferry in Dublin and a solar probe.  The poem by this name notes "that which we are, we are, one equal temper of heroic hearts," and the novel by this name contains a graphic description of the flirations of Gerty MacDowell.  Also the first name of a Union general who took Cold Harbor, FTP give the Latin name for Odysseus.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b Ulysses\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One of his late collections include "Humanism and Truth," "The Tigers in India," and "Professor Pratt on Truth."  His reading of Charles Renouvier led to an acceptance of the notion of free will and rejection of monism and the so-called "block universe."  His articles "The Thing and Its Relations" and "Does Consciousness Exist?" are found in \i Essays in Radical Empiricism\i0 , and his other works vouch for \i A Pluralistic Universe\i0  and a distinction between tender-minded rationalism and tough-minded empiricism.  FTP name this author of \i The Meaning of Truth\i0 , \i The Will to Believe\i0 , and the lectures in \i Pragmatism\i0 , who did some work in \i Principles of Psychology\i0 , the brother of a novelist.\par
\tab Answer: William \ul\b James\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He took the form of a white elephant in a dream by Queen Mayadevi to be born, and was named Siddhartha before seeing a crippled, a sick, and an ascetic man on his travels with Chenna, and deciding to abandon his wife Yashodhara and his son Rahul.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this Gautama who achieved nirvana and taught the Four Noble Truths.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Buddha\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This is the monastic community that gathered around the Buddha, including monks and nuns who dedicate themselves to humanity.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b sangha\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Buddha taught this doctrine that there is no permanent individual egoistic soul.  It is accompanied by anitya (transience) and dukkha (suffering).\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b anatman\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Avatars of Vishnu.  FTPE.\par
(10)  This son of Kashyapa asked Bali for three paces of land to be measured by his feet, then proceeded to grow very quickly as to step all over heaven and earth.  This dwarf then gives the kingdom back to Indra and initiates the festival of lights.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Vamana\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  He took the Vedas back from Hayagriva so that Brahma can be instructed.  As a fish, he towed the ship of Manu and hence saved humankind from the great flood.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Matsya\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Born to Vasudeva but raised by Yashoda, this flute-playing hero took the head of the serpent Kaliya, and killed Kansa with his brother Balarama.  He is best known for explaining Yoga, Dharma, and Bhakti by reciting the \i Bhagavad Gita \i0 to Arjuna.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Krishna\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He believed that Kant's thing-in-itself is really the will, and considered the suppression of will by art and selfless compassion in his magnum opus.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Name this German philosopher who wrote \i On the Will in Nature\i0 , \i On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason\i0 , and \i The World as Will and Idea\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Arthur \ul\b Schopenhauer\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  \i The World as Will and Idea\i0  drew on this philosophical text also called \i Vedanta\i0 , that identify one's atman with the universal brahman while elaborating on the Vedas.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Upanishad\ulnone\b0 s\i0\par
(10)  This follower of Schopenhauer argues that reason is invoked to alleviate the misery accompanied by will to realize the void in his \i Philosophy of the Unconscious\i0 .\par
\pard\tab Answer: Eduard von \ul\b Hartmann\b0\par
\ulnone\par
2/2 social science geography.\par
\par
He attributed the discrepancy in male to female ratio to better health treatment for men in a paper written with Jocelyn Kynch, which was elaborated in "Gender and Cooperative Conflict" and \i Commodities and Capabilities\i0 .  His writings on philosophy include \i Quality of Life\i0  and \i Inequality Reexamined\i0 , and his analysis of loss of jobs and poor food distribution as causes for famine is given in "An Essay on Entitlement and Deprivation," \i Poverty and Famines\i0 .  Inspired by Kenneth Arrow, he narrowed conditions for his impossibility theorem and authored \i Collective Choice and Social Welfare\i0 .  FTP name this social choice economist, a 1998 Nobel winner from India.\par
\tab Answer: Amartya \ul\b Sen\ulnone\b0\par
\par
It surrounds channels like Wataru, Wadu, One and Half Degree, and Kudahuvadu.  Lying west of the Lakshadweep sea, it contains islands like Suvadiva and Tiladummati.  Declared a sultanate in 1965, it was explored by Thor Heyderdahl, and famously, Ibn Battutta.  Noted for accepting sea shells as currency, it lies southwest of the gulf of Mannar, north of Diego Garcia, and southeast of the Arabian sea.  Its flag is a crescent on green and red surround, and its 1190 atolls have the lowest elevation in the world.  FTP name this island nation in the Indian ocean with capital at Male.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Maldives\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Populations Communications International calls him "the philosophy king of what we do," because his social learning theory demonstrated that radio dramas like \i Let's Go with the Times\i0  lowered HIV transmission in Tanzania by depicting safe sex.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Observational learning is the "theory heard 'round the world" by this Stanford psychologist, who began the idea of reciprocal determinism in \i Adolescent Aggression\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Albert \ul\b Bandura\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Children who viewed violent models behaved violently towards the namesake rebounding figurine in this Bandura experiment conducted with Dorrie and Sheila Ross.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b bobo doll\ulnone\b0  experiment\par
(10)  Bandura's theory was also applied by Indian television, which persuaded certain Hindus to stop the practice of child marriages in dramas like \i Tinka Tinka Sukh\i0  and \i Hum Log\i0 , which gave this naturalist Hindi actor nicknamed Dadamoni his start.  This icon of early Indian cinema also starred in \i Savitri\i0 , \i Kangan\i0 , and famously, \i Kismet\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Ashok \ul\b Kumar\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
M. A. Sherring compares it to "Athens in the times of St. Paul, a city given to idolatry."  Herman Kaiserling felt "nearer here than anywhere else to the heart of the world," and noted that "here he would discover what piety means."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Called the "luminous place" by Hindus, name this holy city of Northern India.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Benares\ulnone\b0 ; or \ul\b Varanasi\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Benares sits on the northern bank of this holy river, which flows from the Himalayas near Bhagirathi southeast towards bay of Bengal, emptying as the Meghna.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Ganges\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Benares lies in Uttar Pradesh east of this city, its capital.  It contains the Pearl mosque, and is where the British were besieged for 12 weeks during the Sepoy rebellion.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Lucknow\ulnone\b0\par
\par
3/3 fine arts.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar One of his late films followed a half-Indian girl Melanie in West Bengal as she tries to "find out where [she] belong[s]" in an infatuation with the one-legged Capt. John, competing with the English girls Valerie and Harriet for his affections.  Along with that film based on a Rumer Godden novel, he delivered for Hollywood \i The Southerner\i0 , \i Woman on the Beach\i0  and \i Diary of a Chambermaid\i0 .  Amedee's murder of Batala for the rights to the journal \i Arizona Jim\i0  and the escape of Rosenthal and Marechal form the bases of two of his films, and he explored India in \i The River\i0 .  FTP name this director of \i The Crime of Monsieur Lange\i0  and \i Grand Illusion\i0 , son of a French painter.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Jean \ul\b Renoir\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Act I begins with the chorus "May our prayers ascend," after which Ellen and Rose wander about the grove with Frederick while Gerald remains alone to make a sketch.  Act II begins with the dance of the Bayaderes at a market place, where Gerald is later murdered by Nilakantha, the fanatical priest and father of the title character, whose servant is Mallika.  In act III, Gerald is nursed back to health and returning to the regiment, while the title character poisons herself with the juice of a flower and dies.  FTP name this opera about India, featuring a flower duet by Leo Delibes.\par
\pard\tab Answer: \ul\b\i Lakme\b0\par
\ulnone\i0\par
\pard\nowidctlpar An example from it is Johanes Eichner's documentation of the Deccan plateau at Palni.  \i Turkish Cafe II\i0  and \i Peasant Woman of Murnau with Children\i0  are examples of this art movement, whose sympathizers include Louis Moilliet and Aleksey von Jawlensky.  Works done in Tunisia and \i Large Zoological Garden\i0  by August Macke exemplify its planes of color with little illusion of shade, while the influence of fauvism can be seen in the works of Gabriele Munter.  The death of Franz Marc ended, FTP this expressionist movement characterized by primary colors, founded by Marc and Wassily Kandinsky.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Der \ul\b blaue reiter\ulnone\b0 ; or The \ul Blue \b Rider\b0\par
\ulnone\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Answer the following about a period of warm weather in late October.  FTPE.\par
(10)  In the poem "Indian Summer," this poet wrote of "thy sacred emblems to partake, thy consecrated bread to break, taste thine immortal wine!" and begins with "these are the days when birds come back."  She also wrote of a fly dying when she buzzed.\par
\tab Answer: Emily \ul\b Dickinson\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  One of the classic renditions of "Indian Summer" was due to this clarinetist and soprano saxophonist who toured Russia with Josephine Baker and Le revue negre.\par
\tab Answer: Sidney \ul\b Bechet\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This author's \i Indian Summer\i0  details the romance Theodore Colville experiences when he sells his newspaper business to head for Italy, where he meets Lina Bowen and the young Imogene Graham.  He also wrote \i Annie Kilburn\i0  and \i The Undiscovered Country\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: William Dean \ul\b Howells\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Alma Schindler once asked herself: "how could I love this guy, he's so ugly!"  Her family agreed, and she was told to dump him for a less unappealing man.  FTPE.\par
(10)  Johannes Brahms got Simrock to publish his \i Clarinet Trio\i0 , and his other works include the symphonic poem \i The Mermaid\i0  and the ballet \i The Triumph of Time\i0 .  Name this Austrian composer with a Russian sounding name who most famously taught Schoenberg.\par
\tab Answer: Alexander von \ul\b Zemlinsky\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This composer dedicated his \i Lyric Suite\i0  to Zemlinsky, and its twelve tone technology influenced one of Bartok's string quartets.  He also wrote music for \i Lulu\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Alban \ul\b Berg\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Zemlinsky's best known work is the \i Lyric Symphony\i0 , which Ken DeLong calls the "Intimations of India," for it is set to poems by this Bengali poet of \i Gitanjali\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Rabindranath \ul\b Tagore\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Commissioned by Emile Zola, it was described by \i L'intransigeant\i0  as the result of "extracting the brain of a man and applying it on his face."  FTPE.\par
(10)  Finally placed at Raspail and Montparnasse in 1939, it was the creator's last monument before a statue of Sarmiento.  Name this statue of the creator of \i The Lily of the Valley\i0  and \i The Country Doctor\i0  in a loose dressing gown.\par
\tab Answer: \i Monument to \ul\b Balzac\ulnone\b0\i0\par
(10)  The \i Balzac Monument\i0  was created by this sculptor also known for \i The Thinker\i0 .\par
\tab Answer: Auguste \ul\b Rodin\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  Rodin praised this artist from Calcutta as "the father of India modern art."  He studied Japanese art with Okakura but turned to the Rajput style while working with E. B. Havell, exhibiting his version of \i Radha \i0 and \i Journey's End\i0  with Jamini Roy.\par
\tab Answer: Abanindranath \ul\b Tagore\ulnone\b0\par
\pard\par
1/1 popular culture.\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar He played a man whose death is avenged by his widow Geeta after he is killed by a gangster in the film \i Army\i0 .  He was the Lalit who has an affair with the titular \i Maya\i0  in a film adaptation of Flaubert's \i Madame Bovary\i0 .  More famously, he played the hero of a Chatterjee novel who falls in love with Paro, but due to family conflict, ends up with the courtesan Chandramukhi, the former played by Aishwarya Rai.  As Aman, he plays matchmaker and sings the titular song to Naina in \i Kal Ho Naa Ho\i0 .  He also sings "Chaiya Chaiya" on top of a train in \i Dil Se\i0 , and woos the boyish Kajol in \i Kuch Kuch Hota Hai\i0 .  FTP name this quintessential Bollywood actor who isn't related to Genghis.\par
\pard\tab Answer: Shahrukh \ul\b Khan\ulnone\b0 ; accept "King Khan"\par
\par
\pard\nowidctlpar Name these Indian athletes.  FTPE.\par
(10)  He scored over 1000 Test runs each year from 1999 to 2002, and has the second most ODIs ever, as well as the most runs in World Cup cricket history.  Name this cricketer, still regarded as one of the greatest batsmen in the world today.\par
\tab Answer: Sachin \ul\b Tendulkar\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  This chess player became grandmaster at age 17, won the 2000 FIDE championship and the 2003 FIDE rapid championship.  He is currently ranked 2nd behind Topalov.\par
\tab Answer: Vishwanathan \ul\b Anand\ulnone\b0\par
(10)  The most famous Indian athlete may be this former member of Chicago quiz bowl, whose accomplishments include a 128 PPG performance in winning 2003 NAQT ICT.\par
\tab Answer: \ul\b Subash Maddipoti\ulnone\b0 ; or "the subash"; accept either name\par
\pard\par
}
 